in this video I show you how to add user
authentication to your node applications
if you ever want it to have users be
able to log in with an email and
password this is the video for you it's
a three classes combined into one video
that are part of our free 30-week
software engineering boot camp if you
ever wanted to learn how to code but
didn't feel like shelling out thousands
and thousands of dollars to do it this
is the place for you join 40 000 plus of
us on Discord and hundreds of folks that
have already gotten a job let's get into
it it's a good night we're gonna add
some authentication to our full stack
node applications and then we are
starting project week
over a thousand plus people signed up to
work on projects tonight that's wild
that's wild let's go
what's going on everybody get in here
get in here Rascal 2 at the raid a thank
you at the raid hope you're doing well
welcome in everybody
got a paid client yesterday Ty hey
congrats it's huge
can we still sign up absolutely uh for
folks that didn't sign up last week uh
you're gonna join Remo 2 on the fifth
floor and up uh and that'll be your your
playground uh for tonight and Thursday
alrighty folks welcome in welcome in
hey Sports it's in the game exactly
all right
people are hearing a little bit of a an
echo they're saying well let me see if I
can fix that real quick one second
all right sorry about that
there's a little bit of a background
noise that I uh turned off we should be
good going forward alrighty folks
welcome back hope you all are doing well
good to see you all lots to get into
tonight uh off
project night we're gonna come together
to build something amazing so let's do
that all right let's go ahead and turn
off your second stream of Leon that's
where you're here in the the double
let's go all right so tonight we're
going to talk a little bit about 100
devs uh we're gonna talk about what's
due for hack uh for October almost said
October
uh hunttober uh we're gonna talk through
what's due today which is the
professional checklist we're gonna look
through our application with off and
we're gonna jump right into building uh
this this night uh so let's jump right
into it as always like to give folks a
few seconds to get in here if you got
some questions got some answers
give me some questions folks
give folks a chance to get in here I
know they're running late coming in from
work
the confirmation email to me by surprise
yeah with the checklist I made it so
that it lets you know that you submitted
it that way there's no confusion as to
whether or not you submitted stuff for
uh October
is the mongodb thing addressed what do
you mean
should ketchup folks bother with hunt
Tober uh so like I said hunttober is
going to be a focused group of folks
that are ready to get a job right then
and there uh so for October we're still
going to have some regular streams but
that daily group that meets with the
sole purpose of getting a job is only
going to be a fit if you got done all
the work that we need right like going
into the hunt you need to be prepared
you need to have the things that I'm
asking for done so it's not me asking
for these things or setting up deadlines
just for the fun of it is these are the
things that I've seen time and time
again that have felt folks get jobs so
for everyone that has that stuff ready
locked and loaded ready to go we're
gonna Focus all throughout October to
get the jobs that's that's the goal
uh do we need to submit the checklist if
we already did it before yes uh so
you're submitting everything these all
are new submissions uh it should be all
your most updated stuff and that way I
have it all in one place
yep you definitely if you want if you
want to be part of October you have to
submit everything uh in the the the the
submissions that I'm sharing going
forward yeah no matter if you already
turn stuff in because I have been asking
for it since
foreign
but anyway
so please get it in uh the submission
will be open uh tonight uh it'll be open
uh for this I'll keep it open for the
full week just as little extra for folks
that are still trying to catch up for it
I will leave it open until next Tuesday
and we'll talk all about that stuff as
we kind of get into it
all right a lot of folks in here
uh can we do daily code Wars even if
we're not part of hunting absolutely so
I think we talked a lot about this on on
Monday but uh just to kind of echo it
again uh nothing changes if you don't
participate in hunttober right so we
have a lot of folks that are part of the
ketchup crew that obviously probably
won't participate uh in the hunttober
that's absolutely okay you're you're
only missing like that focused group of
individuals that are going through that
that portion of program together and
what it is is it's daily data structures
and algorithm stuff and also just trying
to get listening to what folks are going
through on the hunt uh how the job hunt
search is going uh how the interviews
are going things that they should be
doing when they're negotiating salaries
all that stuff the beautiful thing is
all that core material is already on my
YouTube so uh everything's already on
YouTube we're gonna have so many classes
that cover all that stuff it's really
just a group of folks coming together to
focus on those things for a month but
catch-up crew and anyone that's not
participating totally fine you're going
to have a wonderful experience as well
cool
struggling with the creative part of
starting projects especially the hundred
hours any suggestions pick something
that you're passionate about something
that you hate that you want to fix or
better yet something that aligns with
what you've done in the past
right
right lines of what we've done in the
past like what you've done in the past
so uh if you were a teacher build
something that would help you in the
classroom if you were a barista build
coffee shop right like make sure that
you're doing something that like links
your past to your present that's an easy
way to kind of think of a 100 hours
project
um
if we submit the checklist months ago we
aren't getting confirmation no because
you have to resubmit the checklist you
submitted it before it doesn't count I
want it now
that way I have all of it in one spot
uh sorry for streaming this kind of
anxious when filling out my hit list
with mostly Junior entry level the
requirements are still very intimidating
uh how much do we ignore when it comes
to years of experience at other
Technologies you ignore every single
thing that's on that job requirement
because you are not clicking apply
you are not clicking apply you are
talking to a real living breathing human
being that works on that team or at that
company and you are getting your resume
in front of them and when they ask about
your requirements you can massage the
details to make it fit what they're
looking for right those those
requirements especially for entry-level
roles are wish list but what most
companies are looking for is someone
that is going to be able to join day one
learn very quickly get up to speed on
their technology their stack right work
well with others on their team wait a
minute
that sounds an awful lot
like what we're doing tonight
new code base
stuff we might have never seen before
new team we have to come together to
build something hmm
oh
interesting very very interesting so
yeah the the entry level requirements
really don't matter uh because you're
now you're never clicking apply right
you're talking to a real human that can
qualify those things for you right when
you're talking to a living breathing
human being you say hey this is my this
is what I've built here are the things
I've built here are the clients I've
worked with here are the open source
contributions that I have here's all the
code that I've committed over the last
month right when you're talking to a
human those requirements kind of really
don't matter as much because they can
see your your aptitude to build to learn
to grow quickly and that's what they
care about most of the time now are
there some companies that are
curmudgeons about having certain years
of certain experiences because they're
stuck in the Dark Ages absolutely you
chalk it up you move on the numbers game
it is always a numbers game right you
are always going to run into
opportunities that seem cool that seemed
like something you'd want to do but for
some reason there's a barrier you move
on one of 60 right one of sixty one is
60.
yeah
cool
all right
uh including the tech stack yes if it's
a company that you'd want to work at UH
most folks will leave a hundred devs and
work at a company that uses technologies
that we did not cover here together
uh I think out of the last cohort a lot
of them went to kind of JavaScript
focused places but a lot of them use
different tools on the back end they use
different languages entirely you are not
being hired for your years of experience
with a specific technology you're being
hired for your ability to pick up new
things very quickly to learn to grow and
to be molded into the engineer they
needed that company
DB says I'm working in Java exactly I
can't tell you the like out of the
hundreds of students I've helped get
jobs it's it's never what they've
learned it's it's it's more about those
other skills that you can apply on the
job
that's why this isn't really a coding
boot camp this is a getting a job boot
camp big difference
all right folks we got a lot to get into
tonight uh we're gonna spend quite a bit
of time uh just talking through once
again just hunt over real quick just the
things that are due uh quickly and then
we're gonna spend a chunk of time
looking at that uh MVC authentication
code looking at the app together seeing
the bits and Bobs that are working and
then moving into project night you're
gonna play You're Gonna first understand
all that code together start building on
it together then we're going to come
back Thursday and we're gonna go deeper
into the authentication stuff together
once you've had a chance to get your
hands on it to play with it to start
adding to it we'll have another lecture
on Thursday that goes deeper with
authentication and then the projects
will be due that next Tuesday
um
all right checking in uh if you haven't
checked in please go ahead you can do
exclamation point check-in that'll give
you the link for tonight it's the Tweet
go ahead like it retweet it uh helps
folks find us also lets me know that you
are here if you want to participate in
October uh if you eventually want the
the verification once you graduate uh we
need to know that you're actually here
for class don't put me in the awkward
situation where you say hey Leon can I
get that certificate and I go and I
check and you haven't checked in you
haven't submitted homework there's
nothing like nothing I can really do for
you at that point right so please let me
know that you're here check in uh and
make sure you're submitting things on
time
hmm
does check in apply to ketchup crew
absolutely because ketchup crew
hopefully at the end once the uh
completion as well
alrighty
uh we talk a bit about on Monday I see a
lot of folks asking about oh no the
heroku's have ended
um yep Heroku unfortunately is
sunsetting their free plan I've been
talking to a lot of other companies
recently that might be good replacements
I'll have my Like official
recommendation next week I've been
playing a lot with different Services
over the past weekend I'll continue that
this week and continue to talk with
people and then we'll have something
that we'll be using going forward lots
of great options just trying to figure
out what the best for us would be
Doug welcome
all right
thank you for checking in uh submitting
your work I I want your checklist I need
your checklist go ahead and submit your
checklist for me uh here's the form to
fill it out it's also in the follow-on
materials channel on Discord uh please
triple check everything uh before you
submit uh please don't submit stuff
that's incomplete or fake there's always
a few of you that like just try to like
submit like random stuff uh it just
makes my life more difficult and it
won't help you because I'm immediately
just gonna throw you in the Sin bin uh
and you'll never be seen again uh from
my eyes so please triple check before
you submit don't submit incomplete or
fake stuff just to try and you know
slide on through it's not gonna work I
see you
cool
and if you're like hey I see some people
asking about like the stuff that's on
the checklist we had a full class that
walked through everything that was due
on the checklist uh definitely go back
to that previous class on YouTube it has
all the details for every single thing
sinbin is like um in you know like how
in hockey they put you like in like they
put you like that like glass box when
you've done something wrong well in
rugby the sinbin is like you go stand
underneath the like you go stand in the
Tri Area like at the end of the field
it's the Penalty Box yeah so sinbin is
the Penalty Box in in rugby that's where
that comes from
foreign
thank you for submitting your checklist
uh you don't have to do it right now I'm
going to leave it open for the week to
give folks a chance to get in I want you
to take your time submitting everything
don't rush to do it take your time
submit it uh and you'll be good
uh a lot of people reached out to me
about this upcoming Sunday being uh
Labor Day weekend which is a holiday
here in the states so a lot of folks
asked me to push the back in review so
we're going to push it to the
um
we're going to push it to the other the
next Sunday so not this Sunday the
following Sunday we're going to do a
full back end review uh everything from
the beginning of node all the way
through this authentication stuff that
we're working on
um it's just going to be it's going to
be a full review so if you're still kind
of catching up on the back end are there
things that still kind of don't make
sense boom this day is for you come on
through I will make sure that we spend a
lot of time make sure everyone feels
super comfortable
boom
uh big thank you to everyone uh it was
great talking to everyone yesterday uh I
just want to lean into this idea I'm not
going to review everything we talked
about but I'm just going to say leaning
to this idea that we're Community taught
you have an amazing support Community
that's here that wants to support you
that wants to see you win tonight we
prove that once again working in
projects I'm going to ask you to be the
amazing community that you already are
work well with each other support each
other help each other learn as the
Paramount thing that we do today uh
when we get into our groups you're going
to spend some time in the beginning just
to get to know each other you're going
to spend some time getting to see where
folks are at in their coding Journey we
may have some folks that are still part
of the ketchup crew that haven't gotten
all the way up to where you currently
are in program that's okay as you start
working on these projects do things that
are accessible to everyone so if
somebody's really good at the HTML and
CSS because they're on class five guess
what that's what they're working on if
you're caught up guess what you're
working on the authentication stuff
right so make sure that you meet each
other where you're at be kind if you
can't be kind don't show up
it's not about showing out it's not
about actually like getting a project
fully complete like I don't care I want
you to work together I want you to build
something cool and I want you to have
fun doing it you can't be kind you can't
do that you can't work well with others
you want to be a flexasaurus don't show
up
just just close your eyes you just go
away it's okay you can come back next
week that's fine
Just Close Your Eyes
all right
also a j a very gentle reminder
for those that are like Leon I can't
slow down I gotta go fast I need to be a
flexasaurus on the go that's okay every
single thing you need is on YouTube
already all of our classes that we're
gonna eventually get to later on in this
cohort they're already on YouTube if I
have to miss a class you have a metric
crap ton of work that has to get done
and you have a community that's here to
support you to get that work done all
right so all the classes already on
YouTube and you already have your
marching orders for the next two months
a hundred plus hours of work that you
have to be getting done right now your
100 hours project plus all these other
things if for whatever reason we're not
live it's not a oh no we're not live it
is this is a chance to get the work I
need to get done the work that I've been
trying to get done since April for some
of us right that's the chance we need so
lean into Community tonight lean into
supporting each other leaning to helping
each other working through things that
don't make sense is the goal for tonight
when we come back Thursday we'll dive
deeper into the off we'll see it more
we'll understand it more we'll break it
down more but I want you to play I want
you to practice something very very very
fundamental
you are all very soon going to leave a
hundred devs and join a new company it
will be a brand new code base that you
have never seen before it will be a team
that you have never worked with practice
that tonight practice being kind
practice getting to know other folks in
an engineering context practice getting
up to speed with a code base that might
be unfamiliar to you because in a few
weeks that's what you're going to be
trying to do in real life so I would be
doing you a disservice if we didn't
start practicing those things a lot of
what we do going forward is just trying
to get you ready so that when you get
placed into a job you don't have the
shock right you're ready to go you're
ready to roll and so that's what we need
to lean in tonight we're practicing that
where we're working through those ideas
and we'll do it together
cool uh for hunt Tober I really want to
help you with stuff like resume
portfolio job Outreach interview skills
I want to help you uh get verification
letters or completion letters for things
that you might need for folks that make
our way through October I want to be a
reference for you uh it's going to be a
Monumental amount of work it's never
been done before at this scale we're
gonna try my really hardest to get it
all done and to do it well but it'll be
a lot of growing pains we're going to
work through it together to get all of
this stuff to do all these wonderful
things uh I I need some stuff from you
right and and I really ain't here to
play about these things I need these
things done because if you have these
things done you can go about the job
search
in the correct way right in the way that
I've helped literally hundreds of other
people get jobs is through this pathway
and so it's not because I want these
things done it's not because I want you
to hit these deadlines it's because
these are the things that I have seen
over my 10 years of doing this that have
actually moved the needle right right
move the needle right to get stuff done
box said there's nobody at my table
because we're here on Twitch chat first
we haven't gone to Remo yet
uh so please if you want these cool
things if you want to be added to the
special channels you want the interview
feedback you want the stuff that that'll
help in Faster these are the things that
I need
um some folks have been asking like what
does the verification look like so I am
going to read you a letter I read this
yesterday but I'm going to read it again
just for because we have more folks here
um here's a letter that I I shared with
someone uh that started their job
yesterday uh so this is a letter I
shared
um to whom it may concern please accept
this letter as confirmation that person
has participated in the 100 Dev software
engineering Academy the 100 devs Academy
is a 30-week training program that helps
individuals learn in-demand software
engineering skills and helps our digital
agency develop top engineering Talent
during their time in 100 devs this
person grew their engineering skill set
and even became a contributor to a
popular blank framework with a
JavaScript framework
uh this person shows great promise and
your company is lucky to have them if
you have any questions require
information please give me a call at
this number my direct line or send me an
email
right this is what I want to give to you
for folks to get all this stuff together
that
um kind of Meet the the requirements
that we're putting here because I want
to be able to put that little extra line
in there right I want to be able to say
like this is the thing that they did
right this is the client that they got
this the uh organization they
volunteered with here's the free
software uh community that they that
they contributed to right these are all
things that I want to be able to put in
these letters I got to figure out how to
automate this but these are the things
that I want to to do I can't do it if
you don't do these things right like I I
can't I can't give that to you or do
that if you didn't do these things right
so that's why I'm asking for a lot of
this this is why I want a focused group
of folks right
right you have to do these things I
can't I can't do something like that you
know
cool
alrighty so ain't here to play here a
list of things I need done uh please
check in for every class right check in
for every class uh make sure you're
turning the homework in on time going
forward right
um it'll always be due a week later uh
make sure you're doing your networking
one coffee chat a week three connections
every week uh if you don't remember what
those things are we'll go back to our
previous class on networking
um and I talk through it in detail
use your sheet I'm going to eventually
ask for your sheet to see that you're
adding these coffee chats you're adding
these connections
make sure you're doing your coding
challenges every day I'm starting to
give you like specific coding challenges
I want you to do to get us ready for the
interview process to get us ready for
October where we'll be doing our daily
data structures and algorithms together
and you're pushing those challenges
every day right you're pushing those
challenges every day recruiters love
those green squares they do they do they
do you're also working on your Banky
right and here are the coding challenges
I want you working on this week so last
week I asked you to do strings guess
what I'm asking you to do strings again
this week five new code Wars that are
all string problems and please redo the
five you did last week make sure you can
recall them make sure you can do them
make sure that the methods and things
that you used you can actually use still
right
I was doing five a day no
just one a day one a day daily yeah
cool
um what coup should we do it's up to you
if you want to do eight seven sixes uh
it's up to you to where you're at I
think a lot of folks should start slowly
if you're not somebody that's been doing
a daily habit of code Wars yet
don't rush in and start trying to do
sixes do all the eights
all right Build It Up
I feel like I'm mastering the strings
hey that's awesome
I do feel like I can manipulate strings
now that's great
that's awesome
cool
alrighty
checklist uh is due today uh please even
if you submitted it months and months
ago uh please make sure you're submitted
today because I need it fresh I need it
in this form so that I can have
everything in one place uh I'm still
giving you an extra week to get it done
for folks are like trying to well it
should already be done I'm giving a week
to submit it let's say so please get it
in so that I have it
uh Team project will be due next Tuesday
we're going to start it tonight we have
a little bit of stream we're going to
start the project tonight and then we'll
have a little bit of stream on Thursday
more time to work on the project and
that should be enough however the Remo
will stay open all week long the Remo
will stay open from now
until next Tuesday and so if your team
wants to meet up on the Remo to continue
working on stuff that you can absolutely
do so
um we don't have enough voice channels
on Discord to facilitate thousands of
you working in groups of six so if you
need to
uh Remo will stay open all week so your
group can go back and meet up you also
have your each other's Discord names
um so if you need to Ping each other or
whatever you can do that
uh we'll talk about the team stuff in a
bit when we get to the end of tonight uh
like what happens if folks don't show up
or things like that we'll walk through
it or if you don't have a team we'll
walk through that as well
uh hit list due September 13th 60
companies that you can actually apply to
60 you can actually apply to that's a
it's a big undertaking don't wait don't
delay by today right
cool
uh client signature approved PR from an
actual open source project or
volunteering for a Grassroots org do the
27th
so I mean most of you already have this
done but if you don't you have a little
bit more time to get it done
is that companies are job posting
company 60 companies 60 companies
companies 60 companies
cool and we'll have a class on on Hit
List you're it's gonna be your first
pass right this will be your first pass
on The Hit List we'll have a class where
we kind of walk through refining it what
if they're not hiring then they don't
count has to be 60 companies that
actually are hiring
yep 60 companies that are actually
hiring you start local because Locale
like being local is an advantage and
then if you max out all the local
companies which is very rare for a lot
of folks then you can start adding
remote opportunities things like that
mm-hmm
and we'll go we'll have a deeper class
on like how to actually refine The Hit
List but the idea is to have 60
companies
that have open positions engineering
positions that you could actually apply
to
cool
all right
and if you want to watch I have three
full classes on YouTube three full
classes where I just did hit list right
so if you're like I don't know what to
do for this Hit List boom go watch those
three classes three full classes on how
to do The Hit List
um and then we're going to do it
together soon as well
jobs you can actually apply to right so
if they're like mad old that doesn't
count yeah
cool
if I have a pull request from another
100 devs member does it count no like an
actual open source project that's
building a real product
um not there's a lot of these like repos
that are like get your first open source
country no no I want I want somebody
when you're in an interview right when
you're an interview you say I
contributed to this project and you can
see that's a real meaningful project
like these are these things aren't just
requirements to be requirements they're
things that are going to help you get
the job so don't try and like curtail
them or wiggle out of them it does
nothing for you does nothing for me
right it's not because I want these
things because these things are going to
help you get the job so it should be
something that's difficult right it
should be something that that's
like hard to achieve like getting a
client getting a a volunteer
organization to work with you like those
are difficult social PR it's like
something that you you have to find a a
team an organization a project that's
like you can work with right you can
submit something and actually get the um
pull request approved yeah
cool
your 100 hours project a beautiful MVP
is due on the 27th right so we have
authentication this week we're going to
be building your project this week and
then next week we're building an
Instagram clone together quick pound
yeah we need to work on that name so
we'll be building quick pound next week
then we'll be introducing a little bit
of react and with those skills combined
you can build a beautiful MVP right uh
so the the
look it could like so Instagram right so
insta like we have to think of a
different word for insta so like quick
is it not a different word for insta and
I can't say like I can't say like quick
kilo because then then I'm really
getting in trouble right so like what's
what's what's another like synonym for
kilo so I'm gonna say like gram like
well it's already gram so pound like
it's a pound so we're gonna go a quick
pound will be the name of the
application right there's not really
many other options we can go with here
right
cool anyway uh so we'll be building that
so by the time we get through projects
this week we get through the Instagram
clone together by the time we add react
to the mix you will have a full
repertoire of skills to build out your
100 hours project but you don't have to
wait
right you don't have to wait you already
could start building today don't delay
your 100 hours project start with your
views
21 21 21 21 Oh wrong one I was running
through the six with my woes
I was running through the six with my
woes I was running through the six with
my
clothes right start with your views
folks start with your views right like
you all can do the HTML the CSS the
javascripts right start there make those
look beautiful and then add your back
end if you need to
all right
all right then by October 11th your 100
hours project should be done
so
also premium apps should be done so
don't worry about the premium Maps yet
we're gonna have a whole class on that
um but these are the things that are due
and these are the things I have seen
time and time
again that have been helpful for my
students to get jobs so that's why I'm
asking you to do these things right now
as always I'm going to show you how to
play the game it is up to you if you
want to play it it's up to you to decide
what doors you want to open what doors
you want to leave closed that's okay
right it's up to you but I'm going to
show you how to play it it's up to you
to figure out if that's the way you want
to play the game okay
um should we only have completed
projects on our resume uh so I showed a
hack for this actually when we were
working on our GitHub like like our our
we talked a little bit about our githubs
and our readme's and I shared a readme
template for your GitHub uh there was
something on that readme template that
helped with that right should we put
only completed projects on our resume no
you can put unfinished projects on your
on your sorry on your GitHub uh or even
sometimes on your resume because you
have an optimization section where you
talk through the things that you would
add if you had more time more financial
resources whatever it may be right there
is a list for those optimizations a lot
of times people just want to see that
you thought through the engineering
challenges that are yet to come and that
can be enough right so if you don't have
that that readme template definitely get
it
definitely use it every single thing you
put on GitHub you should have that
readme template that you break down
everything that happens yeah and we we
did that in our um
what class was that maybe I was in our
intro to freelancing class I think maybe
um but yeah we went over that whole
thing yep
what are my thoughts on working with
recruiting agencies
um
sometimes they work but most of the time
it's a big waste of time
uh never sign exclusivity never ever
ever ever ever sign exclusivity
yep
cool
all right last thing I'll say when I
rattle off all these things that have to
be done all these expectations where
quite a few folks they decide you know
what
that's it this is where my journey ends
and they take themselves out the game
I think it makes no sense to have come
this far and to take yourself out the
game let the game take you out don't let
the game don't don't don't let yourself
take you out the game let the game take
you out right it's gonna be a long slog
it will be hard
it is not easy if it was easy there'd be
so many other people being software
Engineers but you're so close to the end
you've gone through the trough of Sorrow
you're getting to those Wiggles of false
hope soon don't take yourself out the
game it's too early for that we got an
amazing community that wants to support
you get on Discord ask questions get the
support that you need right and work
through these things you get through
these things you're off to the other
side it's so much sweeter on the other
side
all right
we had a problem folks
you have a problem
our applications
don't have Authentication
and when I say authentication what I
mean is the ability for our users to log
in sign up have their own accounts so we
can build full stack web applications
right we've built the to-do list that's
a full stack web application it has a
beautiful MVC architecture where you can
start playing with our routes our
controllers our models our views right
we can build the API of our dreams
that's listening for all these requests
coming in and is doing all these
wonderful things
foreign
is public to everyone into all of our
users and there's no way to have
individual users so
you get around that we add
authentication to our applications oh
that's that sounds nice hold on
we add authentication to our
applications
applications we add authentication to
our we add A3 off we add authentication
we add authentication to our
applications nice all right which all I
mean when I say that is like the ability
for users to log in right we've all used
applications where we could log in once
we log in hey it's our stuff it's not
everything or there's some other thing
we do once we are logged in right now
sounds great Leon I'm sold we're going
to add authentication to our application
right we're signed up for that
um but
I got a second problem
got a second problem
oh
authentication means that there's like
logging in
there's like
usernames and and passwords and security
and I got to keep my users information
secure I got to make sure that I'm not
putting like plain text passwords into a
database I got to do all this stuff and
and nobody's told you
I'm not a cyber security expert
and I and I really don't want to be
I just want to build full stack web
applications I really just want to you
know at the end of the day we add
authentication to our applications like
that's just what I want to do but I I
don't know how to to
I have a lot
a lot of responsibility
uh it's it's a lot of things that we
have to think through uh and so
there's something wonderful
that we can all use
because we're not cyber Security Experts
there's a warning for the next slide all
right we're not cyber Security Experts
10 seconds
but uh there's something that we can use
that will give us the functionality
required to add that authentication to
our applications to not lose sleep at
the end of the night because we have
passports
[Music]
is the way
this is the way now
whenever I bring up passport
all right whenever I bring up passport
there's always only on actually I read
this blog post one time about JWT tokens
and well I don't know about this
passport thing seems like it's been it
seems like it's been used for a while
seems like a lot of you know very
serious companies use it it seems like
it seems like it's been battle tested it
seems like it's been you know the the
backbone of a lot of node applications
for the past 10 years it seems like it's
you know it seems like it seems like
it's handled authentication at scale it
seems like it's done a lot of these
things but I read this blog post
about this newer thing
and
no
absolutely not
eat it
Beat It
get out of here
you're not a cyber security expert you
can't differentiate between these things
get out of here no
absolutely not
for your first few applications
just use passport
right
she has she used passport
there are so many other things out in
the world
there are so many other things that you
could try and do they all have their
trade-offs they all have the things that
they're better at the other things that
they're worse at
what passport is the tried and true
then around the block
by themselves
and we're not cyber Security Experts
that are going to evaluate this we're
going to use stuff off the shelf that's
going to handle the authentication for
us
right so that we don't have to invest in
learning all these wonderful cyber
security things and it's not that you
won't get there in the future it's not
that you won't go deeper in how
authentication works in your
applications not that you will
eventually invest in really
understanding what's happening at the
hood but for your first few applications
for your to-do list application or our
quick pound application we're just going
to use passport the thing that works
that is tried and true that people have
been using for a very long time because
it just works
right now please
Don't Panic learn
right
nobody's going to be in an interview
going oh
you you implemented JWT tokens you you
get a job one job for you because you
you read that blog post and didn't
actually do the like you know pros and
cons of implementing that new technology
but you get a job because you know
nobody's gonna do that
right
what somebody will give you a job for is
having a full stack web application with
authentication that solves a real
problem AKA your 100 hours project the
authentication piece does not matter
like it just doesn't matter it's just
it's just a tool that we are using to
get the job done and the job's not yet
finished right so for your first few
apps just use passport let it let it be
something that's happening in the
background right that you're not worried
about you just know that it works that
it's handling everything for you and
then if you want to after those first
few classes right then you can move on
to something else
right those first few projects move on
to something else right
um so this is me uh actually embracing
passport uh it's live footage uh and a
lot of folks refer to it as magic right
in development there are a lot of things
that developers call Magic right
and
sometimes that's really scary and
sometimes you can just embrace it right
so a lot of times when we start building
these bigger and bigger systems we're
relying on more and more technology
right and some folks will either embrace
it and build or some folks will code
weenie it out and not actually build so
I want your default to be building
real
right
right like if you if your your default
should be to build something really good
really cool
the code we're already baddies we're
already right bad code like it these
decisions aren't the deal breaker for
your pet passion project it is your 100
project right
so embrace the magic understand that
it's sitting on top of the shoulders of
giants that have spent hundreds of hours
thousands of hours tens of thousands of
hours making all this work so that we
can just plop a few files into our
application and get logins let's go time
to embrace some magic it's time to
embrace passport for now
um
and eventually you might move on to
something else that's okay
I gotta engineer my own transistors at
home first exactly right exactly cool
all right so we're going to take a look
at our application with authentication
and then we're going to take a break
um so
actually you know what let's take a
break a little bit early uh so we're
gonna put five minutes on the clock when
we come back from our break uh we are
going to look at our application with
authentication we're going to see how
it's working we're gonna walk through
the changes that I added to our code to
get the authentication working and then
we will move into our project night
where you will get an app with
authentication working and add to it
alrighty folks
uh Miguel uh Vargas Dev added two
minutes to the timer let's go seven
minutes seven minute breaks feel good
all right seven minutes on the timer
come back ready to see some
Authentication
we add authentication to our
applications when we get back folks
seven minutes on the timer here I'm
gonna run some ads that new folks I
don't have to sit through let's welcome
back
at the slow
jams a ending with Holly a thank you for
the raid hope you all are doing well
hope you all had a good night good
evening good morning no matter where you
coming from hope you all are doing
well welcome
we're adding we add authentication to
our applications
tonight
[Laughter]
let's go welcome back
uh so let's take a look at our
application with authentication okay
let's take a look at our application
with authentication uh would you would
you would you just look at it would you
just look at our application uh with
authentication please would you just
look at it if you're not hip I got a
video for you right there in the slides
all right let's take a look at our
application with Authentication
uh am I already logged in did I do this
all right site's not live let's make
sure I am running it
all right here we go
uh
let's go ahead and do our npm
uh run
start
cool we're starting our server
our server is now running on localhost
2121 21. awesome
here we are
okay
so we have our to-do list application
but it's not dropping us right into
uh our application in fact I have to
like log in or sign up and it's small it
makes it bigger I haven't put any really
CSS on this right so I have to either
log in or sign up so let me go ahead and
sign up
um I didn't log out so let me log out
real quick and actually let me actually
just drop everything well actually I
already have a login so let's go ahead
and log in let's do Bob bob.com Bob Bob
Bob Bob Bob beautiful I can log in no I
don't I don't want to reserve it and so
you can see that I've logged in as Bob
and I have a first try second try
uh how did I how did I know your email
and password sorry uh let me log back
out let me log back in uh Bob's evil
step brother
or evil twin sorry uh is John so we'll
do John
John
and log in and we're starting to notice
some things here so we have the ability
to log in
right we have the ability to log in
we have the ability to to log out we had
the ability to let's sign up
let's do uh Sarah
at Sarah
.com
oh sorry that's the what was this
username we'll say Sarah
I'm gonna say Sarah
at Sarah
dot com uh Sarah is the the reason why
there's bad blood between Bob and John
is because of Sarah for folks that
didn't know if you're keeping up with
the lore
so Sarah
when I try just doing a password of
Sarah
and Sarah
um but I get some some error
notifications here
that my password must be eight
characters long that my passwords don't
match uh so there's a lot going on here
so let me go and try Sarah again
let's try Sarah
at
sarah.com let's do Sarah
one two three we'll do Sarah
one two three
and I was able to sign up uh when I
signed up uh Sarah obviously has no to
do because we just signed up I'm able to
enter into do just like I've been able
to do
all right
and uh I'm able to log out
so
that's awesome
like the ability to have our to-do list
right
we can log in
we were able to log in from different
accounts we were able to sign up
when we were signing up if there were
issues like passwords not being the
right length or
um like the the password's not being the
same as I was trying to sign up it gave
me alerts that things were wrong right
dizzy thank you for the hydration cheers
to you
I just try to drink it from the other
side sorry
and so we have a very Bare Bones
application
with authentication and there's more
stuff we can add like
um resetting passwords and things like
that right but the the beautiful thing
here is that we now have the ability to
create an app
we have the ability to log in we had the
ability to sign up we have some
validation on that sign up
uh that to me is like mind-blowing and
it's not that hard folks it's not that
hard uh in fact here's some live footage
of me adding authentication uh it was
super easy just you know Pat it the
sweat off the brow a little bit was
super happy super easy to add it so
we're gonna talk through right we're
able to create this application
where users are able to log in they were
able to sign up they were able to log
out we were able to keep like even saw
me like where I had gone back to the
main page and I went back and it kept me
logged in did you all see that it kept
me logged in like I went back to the
main page and back and I was still
logged in even though I was on different
pages what right uh so what
authentication logged in users how
well
passport has strategies
okay
the reason why we use passport is that
off the shelf passport can do a lot of
heavy lifting for us and so passport has
these different strategies for the
different types of logging and we might
want to do what I just demoed to you is
something called local login I'm using
emails usernames passwords we're not
using something like some other service
right but you could use things like
Google off Microsoft off you could use
Twitter off you use any of these other
authentication services and if you're
using passport you're not doing anything
other differently I'm doing anything
differently other than using a slightly
different strategy
right so you can go to passports
websites you can see all these different
strategies right now I just went and I
joined one of the strategies uh for
local and I plugged it into my
application right it's just exactly done
so it's exactly just another Lego brick
for us to play with right and once you
get comfortable with passport any type
of authentication is your your oyster
and it's been used so much that anything
that you'd want to do regarding
authentication has already been done for
you so you want to do resetting you want
to do two Factor off like all these
things right
all these things that you might want to
do in the future is your application
gets bigger and bigger if you start with
passport you don't have to like reinvent
the wheel on any of this stuff it's
already kind of done for you and you can
you can find all that stuff and and plug
it into your passport uh Magic so let's
take a quick look at passport real quick
I always like to show it right off the
Jump so if we go to our config folder we
have this lovely passport JS file and so
here is the local strategy for passport
you see I'm using the local strategy
now it's a big file right
it's a big file there's a lot of
fanciness going on there right
right a lot of fanciness going on there
it's not that bad I mean it's kind of
big but it's more it looks more than it
is right
um
but we don't have to be disrespected
here right right we don't we don't have
to feel disrespected we don't have to
look at this and go
Leon what it doesn't matter
you don't have to have this memorized
it's not something that you are expected
to like know how to pull out your brain
this is a strategy that I grabbed from
their GitHub I plopped it into my
application and I know that it works
okay
and so if we look at this strategy and
we kind of just like look at it a little
bit you can see that we are creating
um stuff that has like emails uh you can
see some other stuff that's happening
here
um but really it's just it's just
something that we're plugging in so we
can take our to do MVC application we
can add a passport config file we can
add a few things to our server.js that
makes it so that we can use the passport
file and then we can start actually
using passport in our application so all
I did is I took our MVC application and
updated it with a few things right added
some things right that are going to make
the passport work and for any
application you have going forward you
don't have to worry about you're going
to have logins you're going to have sign
ups and it's kind of all here for you so
we're going to talk through some of the
big pieces of it together tonight we're
going to see like how it actually works
but one of the first things I want you
all to do as part of your project team
right
as part of your project team is to walk
through this code base
see if things make sense see if you can
talk through the higher higher level
ideas right so tonight for your project
right your for your project team tonight
should be more
let's look at this code base
let's understand what's happening
and let's come up with a game plan for
Thursday
right that's your goal for tonight your
goal for tonight is like to come
together as a group
understand what's happening in this new
code base right
right understand what's happening in
this new code base
see how things are coming together and
they come up with a game plan for
Thursday about how you're going to add
to it like how are we going to make this
application your own what what tweaks
are you going to add what little finesse
are you going to put on there to to make
it your own okay so that's the goal
tonight the goal tonight understand
what's happening come together as a
group this is an important like so many
people I know just want to like dip when
I say this but don't if you want a job
this is literally what the first three
months of your life is like
this is literally the first three months
of your life
is being thrown into a new code base
with Engineers that you don't know
and and reading the code figuring it out
and working together
right
you have to get good at this part of the
process right and so that's what we're
going to start practicing tonight and
then on Thursday we'll spend the first
hour and a half or so really walking
through step by step everything that's
happening here so that we can kind of
reinforce the work that you did tonight
make sure everyone feels comfortable
with it and then you'll have more time
to work on the project
okay cool
you almost got me to chuckle obscara
you almost got you almost Gotta Laugh
all right so we have passport passport
is doing the heavy lifting we added a
passport JS file right we added some
authentication middleware right that's
going to help us make sure that we're
actually logged in or not I'm going to
show you this in a second and we added
some stuff to our server.js that enables
us to
um have sessions which are what keeps us
logged in throughout different pages
right so you notice I went back to the
main page and I went back to the
application and I didn't have to re-log
in we have these sessions that enable us
to do it we initialize our passport
middleware which is saying hey we're
going to use passport and that's that's
really it like there's like I know it
seems like it can be a little
overwhelming at first but I really just
added some passport stuff some stuff to
stay logged in right and I connect it to
the passport file that I put in my
config
it's kind of it
right and so tonight you're going to
play through it there'll be some other
bits and Bobs that I haven't explained
yet we're going to dig through and see
what's actually happening so let's talk
about some high level stuff first before
we actually jump into that
all right so users are logged in right
or we have the ability to log in but why
would this matter for our to-do list app
why would it like having logins matter
like what would that give us
privacy I like that attention
what would it give us
returning users yeah true
right think about our to-do list what is
having individual logins enable us to do
yeah we can have separate to-do lists
what if our users only want to see their
to-do's I like I like as much as I love
y'all y'all went Reckless when I had the
the public to-do list right you all went
wild adding some stuff that was
definitely not twitch appropriate right
and so I can't have the riffraff mixed
in with with with the you know folks
that just want to use the application
right and so
and now I want to see what Leon's doing
right so we want our users to be able to
have their own to-do's right and so with
authentication we can start to develop
applications where users have their own
experience in that application they have
their own set of to-do's and that's the
beauty of adding we add authentication
to our applications right that's the
beauty of having that so let me show you
come in
foreign
let me show you
it's all about ensure off baby that's
all it's about or just all this build up
is just for ensure auth let me show you
one little bit of line of code real
quick
all right
so we were gonna go to our to do's
right we're gonna go to our to-do's so
if we were to go to our to-do's routes
we would see that our to-do's controller
was going to be called right like we
tried to go
right we try to go and get R to deuced
right we tried to go and get our to-do's
what we can now do
is have this lovely and sure off
before the controller right what does
this ensure auth going to do before our
controller
it's a middleware baby it is a
middleware but what's that going to
enable us to do what's that going to
check for
yeah it ensures authentication it checks
to make sure that you are logged in if
we look at our authentication middleware
uh it's actually a very simple bit of
code
this Ensure auth is really just a
function
right it's just a function and that
function is going to check to see if
you're authenticated
if you are authenticated good move on to
the next thing go use that controller do
your live your best life right
but
if you're not logged in
we're going to redirect you back to the
main page that you can log in
right that's what ensure auth is doing
it's just a handy dandy bit of
middleware something that sits in
between the request and the response
right a ticket Gremlin yeah ticket
Gremlin and it's just gonna say all
right
is the person authenticated are they
logged in
because if they're logged in keep going
if they're not logged in get redirected
right like go back to the main page
let's actually see that let's actually
see that at play here so I am going to
try and go to the to-do's
slash to Do's boom
what happened oh let me see this again
do this again
to do's
hit enter what happened
I got redirected I got denied I got
redirected back to the main page I'm not
logged in and so since I'm not logged in
I was getting redirected back to the
main page now let's think about what I
just tried to do
when I typed in
slash to do's
and I hit enter what type of request did
I try and make there I wanted to go to
Locos 2121 slash to do's and I hit enter
what type of request did I just try and
make yeah
I tried to make a get request on the
to-do's route let's follow the path of
that code
where do we start what's the first thing
that's going to be listening for that to
Do's route like where do we start in our
MVC structure for that get request
yeah we're gonna look at the router
right the route so we're gonna start
with the routes let's go back and take a
look at our code let's go to our
server.js uh we know down here hey if
you're making any requests on to Do's
use the to Do's routes right so we went
to slash to Do's right
slash to Do's right
so now we're going to go to the to-do's
routes let's go and take a look at the
to do routes
the to-do routes here we are what type
of request that I was was I trying to
make
what type of request was I trying to
make it was a get request right and it
was the root of the to-do's right slash
to Do's is the root of to-do's right
it's the same thing as typing out slash
to Do's slash right we're already on the
to-do's route we're just trying to go to
that main to-do's page so it was a get
request on that slash of to-do's right
that forward slash of to-do's and so
here is our router that here's the get
request on to do's and the very first
thing it's going to do
right the very first thing it's going to
do is going to run ensure off
and ensure off is just a function
that's going to check if we're logged in
if we were logged in
it would run this bit of code right it
would go to the next thing it would run
this bit of code
right
if we were not logged in it would
redirect us back to the main page
right it would redirect us back to the
main page now
could I add insure auth to these other
routes yes
but is there any way to get to these
routes if I'm not logged in
like is there any way to get to the page
where I'm creating the to-do's if I'm
not logged in not not really not yet we
could figure out some fancy ways maybe
Postman or something like that right
um but for our users not really right so
it's more of like a thinking through our
application
um so there's no way to really get to it
we could be hacking and getting Postman
and do it right but the beautiful thing
here is that we have insurer off on this
to-do route since we're not logged in
we're getting redirected we can see that
in the code if you were authenticated go
on to the next thing if you're not
authenticated get redirected back to the
main page now
this is authenticated is a me e bit of
code that I don't have to understand
right I'm not a cyber security expert
I'm going to use passport and the
strategy right right and strategy right
that that's been provided to me right
I'm just using a very simple bit of code
that says hey are you authenticated go
on to the next thing if not get the step
and go back to the main page
so now we can use the same uh we can use
the same
bit of code that we've been using right
we go back to our to-do's routes this is
exactly what we were doing last week
where we now have our to-do's controller
let's go ahead and take a look at our
to-do's controller
and our to-do's controller looks exactly
like the get to Do's that we had before
right right like we had before except we
have some other interesting things now
we have as part of the request the
ability to see the user that's making
the request
so when somebody goes when somebody's
logged in and they go to get to Do's not
only can we look at like that request
body that we could always see right not
only does not only can we see that that
um the the request that we could always
see but now we can see the logged in
user right we can see that logged in
user and that logged in user we actually
can we can console log it right we can
console log that logged in user and
we'll see everything about that logged
in user
and one of the cool things is that
whenever we create a new user that user
has its own ID right
users have their own IDs now why would
users have their own IDs what do you
think we're doing that would wind up
with users having their own IDs
yeah we have a mongodb collection we
have a collection in our database of
users and every single time a new user
signs up we are storing that user in a
database we're storing it in our users
collection and the cool thing is that
every single time we create a new user
like when the user signs up every single
time we create that new user that user
in our database is going to have a
unique right a unique ID
if a user has a unique ID
we can use that throughout the rest of
our application to say you know what the
person that made this to do was the
person that has that ID when I want to
see just their to-do's I can just get to
Do's that have that matching ID
right and so this is the beauty of once
you have users and they're logged in you
can just start using these IDs to to
start doing some pretty cool stuff
let's take a look at a few things before
we kind of go any further
if I
have users what else must I have added
to my application
if we're having users that are going to
the database what else did I had to have
ADD
yeah a new model
the only thing that can talk to the
database is our models right so
we look at our models I have a to-do's
model so that I can actually say what's
being stored with each to do
and I have a user model right that user
model has a username an email and a
password so when I actually sign up and
I create these users my users are all
going to have a username an email and a
password but
my password uh is not just going to be
put in plain text we're going to Hash
the password using bcrypt right it's
going to take our password
do some cryptographic magic to it and
give us a hash that we store in our
database so we're not even we're not
even worrying about this this is
something that bcrypt and passport is
handling for me this is not something
that I would ever write from scratch I'm
not a cyber security researcher right
it's also called salting you might hear
that throwing around and eventually with
all this stuff all this user model we
wind up creating a new user in our
mongodb collection
right so did I need did I like this user
schema right this user schema this user
model did I write any of this
no
when I went to passport and I looked up
the local strategy they gave me the
local strategy for the passport.js file
and they gave me this user model that I
could imp that I could just copy and
paste
right now if I wanted to I could go in
here and I could like mess with a few
things right like I could change it
instead of being usernames could be
something else instead of being emails
like I can I can kind of I have control
right
I have control over it but it's not
something that I'm like absolutely doing
from scratch right
uh a lot of this stuff was covered in
the homework so things like hashing and
salting came up in the homework right
um all hashing and salting means is that
we're taking let's say our password was
called password we would take password
we would do some fancy math on it and
then we would get uh a string that was
like 145 exclamation point 62 55 15 18
32 right and the only way to go back
from what that encrypted password is to
back the plain text is through what is
happening here so instead of putting our
plain text passwords right into our
database right which would be a big
problem because if anybody ever got
access right if anybody ever got access
to our database they could see all those
passwords this bit of code is making so
that we don't have to store just plain
text passwords in there we'll get into
that more on Thursday I don't want you
to go worry about it too much the idea
here is that I'm pulling some stuff
off the shelf right that's handling my
Authentication
that's handling my ability to create
users and the really important thing
that I have to learn that I have to see
is let's go to our database here
let me go ahead and just refresh
what I can see is that I have created
users
right if I go ahead and I look at my my
my users collection we see Bob which was
created and look at this lovely hashing
here right this this salted password
right
that's not like this is what the
password was Bob Bob
right
right the password was Bob Bob Bob but
this is what winds up being stored in
the database
right so if we ever get hacks or this
like we the the person's password is
safe right
um John was John John John right and
this is what actually gets one stored up
in the uh in the database uh Sarah I
believe was Sarah one two three right
and this is what model getting stored in
the database so now we have these users
right we have these individual users and
not only are the usernames and emails
unique but each user also has their own
ID right Bob is C5 uh John is DF uh
Sarah is CA right like each user has its
own ID and that's just the result of
using mongodb like whenever we put a
user into our collection right we put a
user into our collection they also have
this ID
right
all right
cool
so now let's think about this
let's go back to our application
Let's uh let's log in
let's log in as Bob
bob.com
and I believe the password was Bump Bob
Bob Bob
and I logged in and I only see
first try
and second try
but if we look at our mongodb
and we look at all of our to do's
we can see that there's other try
there is heyo
right
there are all these other to Do's that
are in our database right
but I am only seeing
first try
and second try
and what you can see is something that
is slightly different than our last
version of the code because now when
we're storing our to-do's we're also
storing a user ID property
and that user ID property is the ID
of the logged in user so whenever a user
is logged in
right whenever a user is logged in
whenever we create the to do we take
their ID and we store it in the database
along with that to do
so now stay with me one second Stay With
Me when we
go to this page
and we are logged in as Bob
what are we searching for to just show
Bob's to do's
what are we what are we going to do to
do dot find
yeah but we're gonna look for where the
user ID
matches Bob's ID and if the user ID
matches Bob's ID we know that Bob made
that to do and we can render that into
the Dom
if that's not cool I don't know what's
cool
that's cool might as well call me Miles
Davis
right
um
let's see it let's see the code
all right we go to our to-do's
which means if we start by looking at
our to-do's drought
we are trying to get the main page of
to-do's we're logged in it's gonna be
the to-do's controller and the get to
Do's method on that to-do's controller
let's look at our to-do's controller the
get to Do's method is here
when we go to find our to-do's
we're finding the to-do's where user ID
equals rec.user.id
remember
rec.user is the logged in user right
every single time the user is logged in
and makes a request we get this rec.user
and it has all their info including
their ID
so all I have to do is say hey find me
the to-do's where the user ID matches
rec.user ID if you find that give me
that to do I'll take it and then we pass
that into our ejs to render right so
instead of having to go
and get all the to-do's and do weird
stuff we're only asking for the to Do's
of the logged in user
all right where does the user variable
come from it comes when we're using
authentication like passports helping us
do all this stuff
right
passport's helping us do all that stuff
it's helping us log in it's helping us
have logged in sessions it's helping us
have users right it's helping us create
the users right with our user model but
this is the big idea the big idea is
that we can create users
we can now store information regarding
the logged in user we can go and get to
Do's that only match the logged in user
and when we create to-do's it's the same
thing right when we create the to-do's
look look here's us creating the to do
right we're gonna we're gonna take the
to do item from the request body like we
did before we're going to set the
completed property to false and then the
user ID that we're putting on the to do
right the to do that we're putting into
our mongodb collection like the to-do
that's going into our database is going
to have a user ID property with the
value of the logged in user's ID
so now every single to do we create will
always have the logged in user's ID
and when we go to get the to-do's we're
only going to get the to Do's of the
logged in user
that's pretty cool
[Laughter]
that's pretty cool that that like this
this is this is beautiful
right
cool
now
is there a lot of stuff that's happening
here yes is there a lot of little bits
that we have to better understand yes do
are we are we 100 clear on like how
we're creating users yet are we 100
clear on like how we are like actually
like doing all these connections no
but that's our job this evening
our job this evening is to get into our
project teams to work through some of
this together right to see all right
all right we saw that we can create
to-do's but how did we create users
right when I logged in what happened
right walk through that together
right walk through it together explore
right and then hopefully as you get to
the end of tonight you start to feel a
little bit more comfortable with the
code base you have some questions and
you have an idea of what you might want
to do to tweak this code to be your own
to make the project your own not just a
to-do list but something slightly
different that's your own we come back
on Thursday Thursday we'll go deeper
into it we'll step through everything
piece by piece right you'll have more
project time to take what you learned
apply it build out something that works
for you if you have more time outside of
class you keep working on it and then
you submit what you got on Tuesday
this is our first taste we're going to
use this exact code base to then build
our full Instagram clone from scratch
right so we will be able to right we'll
be able to
right be able to
go from
this to an even bigger full stack web
application
you know
Tim Griffin I see State rate of I don't
know if you actually read it I didn't
get the alert that came through uh but
even if you didn't raid uh it's good
seeing you I hope you're doing well uh
folks if you ever just won like a chill
stream you need to be hanging out with
them
I think so many of us are like in in
work mode now right like we're at the
point where we need to be getting
done uh and so hanging out with some fun
folks chill streams are a good look uh
so let's go ahead and put this in
chat
they're still live
did you did you come here and type that
that's weird
I don't know how that worked but uh I'm
going to just Spam it in here because I
love your channel and I hope more people
watch you
oh
cool
alrighty
um
let's talk about one more thing
let's talk about the sign up flow
we'll sign up flow that'll take us like
another five minutes and then uh we'll
move into project time
right
so let's go ahead and I'm gonna log out
so
we we met Bob you all know Bob we all
love Bob we know John is Bob's evil twin
we know the the whole falling out
revolved around Sarah but what we don't
know
about Victor
password
will be
Victor one two three
right
we'll log in
all right so now we're logged in as
Victor now if you're like Leon who's
Victor I have to know who's Victor gotta
come back Thursday folks you come back
on Thursday and uh I'll tell you all
about Victor's it's a little it's a
little little teaser to get you to come
back on on on on on Thursday get gotta
get the engagement up gotta boost this
boost the numbers you know they come
back on Thursday you'll learn more about
Victor but let's think about what just
happened
I
let's log out
let's go back to the sign up I click
submit on this form and when I click
submit on this form it plopped me onto
the to-do's page
so
what type of request is submitting this
form
it's a post request and what's the route
what's the route
let's also take a look at the inspector
sign up all right so we know it's a post
and we know that it's sign up let's look
at our code base let's look at our
server.js file
right we have some of our main we have
like a main routes and we have to Do's
well we know it's not to Do's so let's
look at Main routes
main routes has all the main routes of
my application right it has the main
page it has my login for like getting
the login page it has a route for
posting my login like when I actually
try to log in I have the ability to like
get a log out I have the ability to get
a sign up page like I can actually load
the sign up page and then I also have
the posting of sign up right and so when
I submitted that post on sign up
right the post on sign up I use the auth
controller and the post sign up method
so let's go ahead and look at this auth
controller
and let's look at the post sign up
method where are we at where are we at
we outside we online here we go
post sign up look at all this
look at what this post sign up is doing
it's checking that we have a valid email
address it's checking that the password
is at least eight characters long it's
checking to see if the passwords we
entered matched and if at any time those
things are not correct it's giving us
these lovely validation errors and then
once it gets through all that validation
it's using the what what is new user
what do you think new user is
yeah new user is our user model and
we're gonna grab the username from the
form we've been grabbing stuff from
forms for months right we grab that
username from the request body of the
form we grab the email from the form we
grab the password from the form and we
use that to actually create our new user
right there's some fancy stuff in here
um that that comes with like how we're
gonna actually save users we don't have
to notice this stuff that I'm copying
and pasting from passport but at the end
I wind up saving my new user
and when I save my new user it uses that
user model right we're using that user
Mount we go over to the top we can see
we're using the user model it uses that
user model to create a new user in our
users collection and when we go and we
look at our users collection and our
mongodb
we'll see that we now have Victor
right we now have Victor
right so it's not something that I like
when people say like I'm I'm lost right
now I want you to understand that it's
just a few jumps and it's the jumps that
you've already seen don't get caught up
in the code that you don't have to know
how to write
right don't get caught up in the code
that you don't need to know how to write
it's the same thing we've been doing
with the original to-do list right
with the original to-do list right let's
step through it one more time
we go to our server.js file was it a
to-do's route like we we submitted the
sign up form no
it wasn't it wasn't a sign up sorry it
wasn't a to-do's route so we're gonna go
look at the main routes router we go to
main routes
we see that oh it was a post on the sign
up route that's what it was so here's
the controller we need to use
and here is the post sign up method that
we're going to use
right here's the post sign up method
we just heard it's a really fancy
right it is a really fancy click event
right just a really fancy click event
it's just multiple steps you have to
jump through when we hear that event so
we submitted a post on the sign up
right
we are now going to look at the auth
controller we're going to look at that
post sign up method here's our auth
controller here is the post sign up and
when we look at the post sign up
do you need to know how any of this
works like do you need to like know how
to write this from scratch no it's part
of the templating code that I'm giving
you could you get in here and do some
things right yeah we could get in here
we could change this from from 8 to 10
if we want it to right we could tweak
some things about the validation we went
to but we don't have to we just know
that it works and we know that when this
route is triggered we create a new user
using the user model
right
right and when we are done when we are
done saving this new user
right when we when we have created the
new user we have their username we have
their password we have their their their
their their their the username password
and email right we have all that we've
saved the new user right we saved that
new user to our users collection what's
the last thing that we do
it takes us to the to-do's
right sends us to the to-do page
and are we logged in
yeah we're logged in because we just
signed up it's the same thing we're
logged in so it's going to take us to to
Do's as that new user
right
boom
boom so now you can you've been able to
follow two paths you've been able to
follow the path to signing up you've
been able to follow the path to creating
a new to do that's tied to the logged in
user and there are some other paths you
might want to explore how do you log in
what are some of these extra files doing
uh can we can we understand what might
be happening in these models like What's
Happening Here what's happening why is
the to-do Model A little bit different
right you might look at these different
controllers and see what else they might
be able to do and that's what we're
going to start exploring together right
now now
did we cover everything absolutely not
is there a lot of stuff that should be
really fuzzy and doesn't make sense abso
freaking lutely but
should you be able to by the end of
tonight tackle the main concept like all
right we create users we log in we like
can make to Do's based on who's logged
in we can just get the to-do's of the
logged in like that's where you want to
be like the the high level stuff don't
get in the weeds don't get stuck code
weeding individual lines right and walk
through it together
right so
we are going to move into project night
right it's very similar to travesty
exactly it's it's if that's on purpose
right I want you to be able to move from
that video to this code base right so we
are going to move uh from twitch to Remo
uh let me pull up that slide there's
some more slides here that we'll get to
uh on Thursday like we're gonna walk
through the whole code base together on
Thursday we're going to talk more about
kind of how individual pieces work we're
going to talk more about how Mongoose
works on Thursday all that fun stuff but
tonight you're going to do that together
right so we're going to leave twitch uh
we are going to go to Remo uh there are
two Remo rooms uh there's room one and
room two and if you signed up for a
project team on uh last week you are in
this form here Define your room your
floor and your table all right we're
going to take a break don't worry you're
going to go to your Remo room
you're going to find your floor and your
table
you're going to introduce yourselves
you're going to see how folks are
feeling with this code base and then
you're going to tackle the code base
together can you get it running
can you get it working can you
understand what's happening together
right and then before you end tonight
try and brainstorm a little bit about
what tweaks you're going to make to the
project on Thursday okay that way you
come in Thursday with a game plan a
little bit if you do not have
a group that is okay go to room two
and go to the fifth floor and up that
will be for folks that don't have a
group that want to find others to work
with
okay
all right
so that's what we're gonna do uh I
encourage everyone to take five minutes
right take five minutes and then head
over to Remo
um
Remo is going to be the best way to do
this because we don't have enough like
voice channels to support all this so
really try your darnest to get Remo to
work uh try different browsers try
different things
um we're gonna be using it a little bit
more frequently so try and get it
working uh if in doubt you can use
Discord groups but really don't use
Discord tonight try using Remo give it
the old 100 devs try before you before
you
um
slink back the Discord
all right
if your group doesn't show up that's
okay if at least two of you are there
you have a group work through it
together if you've if you've waited 10
minutes and nobody is there get your
butt to the fifth floor on Remo room two
and find some folks to work with there
right so that'll be the goal so
me introduce yourselves try working
through it remember you might have some
folks that are in class one you might
have some folks that are caught up with
program you're going to work together
right work through it no code weenies no
trying to do other extra stuff that you
found on the internet no focus on this
focus on this code base focus on this
project be kind if you can't be kind
just don't show up tonight if you can't
be helpful just don't show up tonight
just close your eyes go somewhere else
do something else right if you have any
trouble let the mods know on Discord uh
and I'll be popping around the Remos you
might see me sit at your table to see
how you're doing uh just to check in on
y'all so let's go ahead and take a five
minute break right and then everyone be
on Remo uh your group listing is here if
you don't have a group go to the fifth
floor up in Remo room two alrighty folks
have a wonderful night good luck with
this project remember the Remo rooms are
open open for the entire week so you
don't have to stop right at normal class
time if you don't want to that'd be up
to your group when you want to slow down
or stop
have fun with this right it's not worth
it if you're not going to have fun if
you're not going to be kind and and just
enjoy the process together we'll come
back Thursday we're going to go deeper
into all this we'll talk about all the
pieces we'll see the code more I want
you to have the first pass on yourself
though so good night no raid take your
break and I'll see you all on Remo I was
running through the six with my woes
21 21 21 21 21.
[Applause]
yeah hey
hey
hey hey
hey hey hey hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
we're coming from hope you all are doing
well welcome back
welcome back y'all project night part
two
we have a lot of wonderful off to review
I wanted to go a little deeper tonight a
little bit more comfortable with the off
get right back into project night have
you keep working together keep building
Community taught what's going on
everybody hope you're doing well good to
see you back on a Thursday let's go
comfy in the office
hey yo I saw uh I just I missed the name
right at the beginning wardia was it uh
congrats on the job offer that's huge
glad to hear it
people people popping off
Henry welcome welcome
people popping off with the jobs it's
wild to see I love seeing a celebrations
Channel you you gotta be check out the
celebrations Channel y'all people
posting their they're getting clients
they're getting jobs it's wild
hey
welcome back now
everybody's here I like I should I just
spill it right away everybody's like
Victor who's Victor
let's just say
Victor
and Sarah of a torrid pass that's all
we're gonna we'll we'll leave it there
for now we'll get into it later that's
it
that's it
people got ads we'll wait
along to the ad
why are we getting ads so early
they're all waiting here
they're all waiting to hear who Victor
is at the ad cuts off
[Laughter]
I wish I had thought of that no
I wish I had thought of that
uh so the
the the
ads are so twitch has something new
which is their incentive program which
is where if you run ads on a certain
time they give you a dedicated payout
but I don't care about that what I was
hoping it would do is give me control of
when the ads Ran So it's supposed to
it's supposed to like prompt me that the
um
the ads are going to run in three
minutes right so I should get like a
three minute warning that the ads are
coming and then once the three minutes
are up that's when they should run
um
but it looks like they ran them
immediately
when the stream started
so
interesting
so there was a delay on it all right I
get it I get it okay okay so folks folks
are almost back from the ads let's give
them a second to get back
foreign
yeah
let's get some questions for folks that
are that have the spent Jeff bezos's
money for the prime subs or whatever uh
let's get some questions and when folks
come back from the ads I'll explain
again
oh coming back who's Victor
[Laughter]
is Victor this Victor did this exactly
code Victor did this exactly Victor is
the one that did this that that wasn't
me it was Victor
all right so folks are coming back from
the ads all right so here's what
happened twitch rolled out this
incentive program where if you agree to
do ads a certain period of time for each
stream uh you
like you get a certain amount of money
but I don't care about that what what is
supposed to happen
is that you then run ads they like run
ads on a specified time which is every
hour and I get a three minute heads up
right I get a three minute heads up that
the ads are going to run so my idea
right my idea is that
when I see the three minute timer up I
wrap up and then we take our break the
ads hit exactly when we're taking break
and so nobody in the community ever has
to sit through the ads again
but they have like a thing that's
supposed to be like um when the ads
first start
and I thought that was it said like you
can choose when the ads first start and
so I picked four minutes thinking that
normally like we have the
um
like the like uh normally we have like a
like the starting screen and it takes me
like four minutes before we actually
start talking and so I thought that
meant that then they would delay the one
hour mark four minutes but what I'm
noticing now is that that's when the
first ad drops so I'll change that back
to when the stream starts and so as soon
as the stream starts the first AD should
roll and then while the starting screen
is running the ads play and then we'll
have an hour until the next one and so
then it should be a little bit more
stable it is my first time trying it so
sorry you got got uh but we should we
should be good going forward
alrighty welcome in everybody hope
you're doing well if you got questions I
got answers always let's give folks some
some time to get in here
oh restarting extreme be interesting
it'll be a good thing to test yeah
all right
what's your favorite type of milkshake
um
I don't know
that burger has like this vegan Maui
banana that's probably the only
milkshake I've had in like a very long
time
Oreo milkshake probably bomb if there's
like a way to do it I could eat it
all right
how many full stack apps projects should
we have on our portfolio good question
you definitely want to highlight your
100 hours project and then I think it
makes sense to have like a few other big
projects so your project night like your
project week project is definitely
something you're probably going to have
in your portfolio like a simple full
stack application that has
authentication that you make look good
so the stuff that you do during tonight
and uh the rest of project week uh is
something that should probably be on
your portfolio your 100 hours project
should definitely be on your portfolio
uh our Instagram clone which will be a
full stack
application with authentication with
image hosting with like a lot of other
features that make a normal site a
normal site so
that should be on your portfolio and
then we're going to do a stream where we
do a few kind of fun projects that use
um machine learning apis so that you
have some like fancier projects on your
portfolio and then we'll have a react
project so I think having like two to
three full stack projects with
authentication all the goods you're
gonna make them look really good on your
GitHub good readme's everything then
we're gonna have some fun like computer
vision type projects so something that's
a little bit more meaty so that you have
that in your portfolio you're gonna have
a react projecting portfolio so I think
like having those five or six
pretty good projects in your portfolio
as long as you make them look good with
the remes and everything you should be
fine like I think that's a really solid
portfolio and then anything else you
build right so a lot of other folks will
like take some time to build off of
their project night they'll take some
time to build some of the other group
projects that we work on later on
um
so a lot of a lot of opportunity it's up
to you what you run with yeah then your
premium apps yeah exactly so you all
will have really solid portfolios
githubs and projects to show in these
interviews as long as you do these next
couple of projects that we do in class
so like I said it's it's we're going to
give you everything you need to be
prepared for the for the hunt and those
projects are part of it but also don't
ever stop right if there's something
else cool that you want to build
something else that you think would be
fun to add to your portfolio or your
githubs go for it like don't don't stop
but um yeah you'll have enough if that's
what you're worried about
cool
quick there we go quick October that's a
good one
all right
I finally noticed recruiters all up in
my biz yeah it gets to be like that
eventually if you've done if you've done
all the things that we've been asking
you to do you're gonna start to see the
the uh the the the the the interests
start to come your way pretty wild
uh can I still join a group you would
have to meet your group today so that
would be the the rub if you didn't get
one on Tuesday you had to meet one today
Rufio thank you for the raid oh 100 plus
folks let's go 100 fuzz folks coming
through the raid with the stream team
let's go Rufio goes live before we go
live folks if you're if you're not uh if
you're not hanging out there before
stream what are you doing what's going
on uh we're gonna be doing some fun
stuff with the stream team coming up
sharing a lot of really cool stuff next
week which would be really fun uh and
talk about Community taught right folks
going into the stream team hanging out
learning more stuff going deeper in the
same stuff that we're going to go
through tonight
uh and then on Remo folks 1200 plus
people on Remo you know how hard that is
you know how hard that is to get 1200
plus people to come together to work on
projects at one time
we go on Remo and we have a full
conference
[Music]
conference on Remo every single time
that's wow that blew my mind right that
blew my mind just like going from floor
to floor looking at all y'all working in
groups like who else is doing this like
what like what 1200 plus people sitting
at tables building stuff struggling
through some code together
that's wild
that is wild right you can go off and do
any type of learning to code Type
experience right there are so many
wonderful other programs online that we
talk about all the time I love me some
free Co Camp I love me some Odin project
I love me uh some some wonderful courses
that are out there
but 1200 plus people on our email just
working together that's a community
that's wild to me that's huge uh so uh
as always thank you for being amazing uh
thank you for all for showing up putting
in the work let's go
all right if you haven't checked in
please go ahead and check in exclamation
point check-in I'll give you the tweet
for night for tonight uh please go ahead
and like that retweet that remember if
you want to participate in October if
you want the verification at the end you
want that sweet letter that I read aloud
to you you need to be checking in so
that I know you're here
right
if you haven't submit your checklist yet
I'm keeping it open until Tuesday and
then I'm shutting it down if you have
until Tuesday to get your uh to get in
your your homework can we mention that
in an interview I've worked with a team
of 1200 developers yeah let's go
that's wild
so please get your checklisted if you
haven't gotten it in already
uh back in review uh remember this
upcoming Sunday is a holiday in the U.S
so folks asked me to push the review so
we're gonna push that to September 11th
um this upcoming week we're gonna start
building a full stack app together uh
we're gonna be building that that quick
pound the the Instagram clone together
and then uh we'll do a full review of
all the back end stuff yeah
oh
is there a way to get a table for more
than six people technically Remo allows
it but I find that it gets buggier the
bigger the tables are uh so we we keep
it at six so that we can have more
groups working together
um
technically admins can can get to a
seventh seat
um but yeah so for now we're stuck with
the sixth
cool
all right folks we're we're jumping
right in right we don't need to get any
buggy
uh we're jumping right in uh when we'll
hit hit list Class B so you can think of
next week as our full stack app that
we're doing together we'll do a review
we're gonna do some react and then
everything from that point forward will
be Hunt related uh so it'll be
um hit list data structures algorithms
all that fun stuff remember your hit
list right now is just a first pass
right
if you're if you're itching they'll know
more you can go watch our three classes
on it that are already on YouTube
um but we'll get to it together yeah
cool
uh we had somebody I don't I don't have
I didn't ask their permission to read
the whole thing but I'll just tell you
what happened
they were interviewing I so I can't make
this up they were interviewing
and the interviewer saw that they were
doing a hundred devs and they said oh
that's great
I learned something from the node
classes
excuse me
what
huh
let's go let's go
let's go not only did an interviewer
know what 100 devs was they're in here
with us what's up what's going on make
sure they get the job
one job please let's go let's go
foreign
let's go
all right tonight I want to dive a
little bit deeper into the
authentication the first pass through
this stuff is pretty rough so I want to
make sure that all the dots are
connected that everything is clear I'll
answer any questions that you have and
then we're gonna jump right back into
project week so
if you don't have the slides you can do
exclamation point slides to get the
slides if you're new around these parts
and you don't know what we're doing
we're running a free 30-week software
engineering boot camp anything you need
to go from having no coding experience
to getting hired hundreds of folks have
gotten jobs already it's literally
raining jobs if you're just joining us
now it's not too late join the
illustrious catch-up crew and uh
welcome
all right making sure I have my stuff
set up we're good all right so
we have an application that has
authentication users are logging in how
is this stuff actually working what's
going on well
last week we learned about MVC
right model view controller this complex
application that we're building up over
time
is still using the same pattern
we are starting with a user making a
request
from their client-side device
that request is making it to our server
where our router hears the request and
knows what controller to pass that
request off to the controller is the
person in the middle that knows what to
do do I go and talk to the model so I
can get some data from the database do I
just pass some stuff off to the view so
that I can render some HTML to send back
to the user and so this complicated web
of stuff comes together to build out our
full stack web applications and so we go
from a very simple MVC to a slightly
more complicated MVC when we start
introducing authentication and our
authentication code so what I want to do
tonight
as I want to step through step by step
right step by step from someone on their
client side shout out Christos if you're
a triple OG know who Christo says uh
from someone on their client-side device
how do they make a request from the
browser
for it to go to our server and go
through all these steps to get something
back to the person making the request so
we're going to go through it step by
step uh each piece we're going to talk
about the connections we're going to see
how it comes together and then I'll
answer some questions we'll look at some
other bits The Bobs in the code base and
then we're jumping back into
project night which I'm super excited
for 1200 plus people on Remo on Tuesday
let's go if you're new and you still
need a group that's okay you can still
join us hang tight we're going to go
through this and then we'll get right
into Remo all right
uh one thing folks asked me a lot uh and
I saw it come up quite a bit until I I
enabled it on my end and I think it's
something that'd be really helpful a lot
of my file names are kind of the same
but they're in named folders so I
enabled this setting where I went to nvs
code my prefaces my settings you search
for workbench editor label format and
you select medium from the drop down
when you select medium from the drop
down
look at this
all right you have the file names right
but now it has the folder
where the file is coming from so you can
see oh it's in the routes folder oh it's
in the middleware folder oh it's in the
controllers folder the models folder the
views folder oh wow
nice
all right so if you need to enable it
file preferences settings uh you just
type this in and you select medium from
the drop down and it'll give you this
nice little tabs so I think that's
helpful if you're working through this
code and you're kind of getting lost the
file names and folder names uh it can be
pretty can be pretty helpful so that's
something I think should have enabled as
we go through it tonight as always if
you need the code you need the slides
you can do exclamation point slides here
in chat to get the slides if you need
links to the code and things like that
it's always on our Discord exclamation
point Discord and chat to get yourself
there
cool
all right so let's start off at the very
very beginning uh let's look at our
application let me make sure my
application is running
let me start my server
my server is running I better go catch
it and I was going to go to my
application here
uh I'm gonna go straight to my login and
I'm going to log in as Bob bob.com
remember we already created this account
on Tuesday I'm going to type in my
password
hit enter and when I am done logging in
right when I am done logging in I have
made a request I have gotten redirected
to my I got redirected to low cost 2121
slash to Do's I got redirected to to
Do's so when you get redirected
somewhere right when you get redirected
somewhere when you get taken somewhere
what what type of request are you making
cool get request beautiful so our client
went to our URL
logged in
and when they logged in they wound up
making a request just the act of logging
in signing up or going directly to that
URL slash to Do's right your Euro might
be different we're on localhost right
now if we were to put this on a server
uh like rip Heroku uh your url might be
different but we're going to get taken
to that URL slash to Do's this is a
request that is leaving the client-side
device going across the internet and
finding its way to a server
all right finally gets way to a server
now
that server is set up to hear that
request right we have written some
server side code that is running and
since it is running it is able to hear
that request and know what to do when we
look at our server.js file we set up a
bunch of stuff that's going to enable
this machine to listen to a request and
know what to do
if we look at our server.js file we have
some important bits up here and the
thing we have to pay attention to at
first is these lines right here
these lines are what are handling that
request that request that just came into
the server from the client right the
client went to
slash to Do's either they logged in they
signed up or they typed it indirectly
they got taken to the server slash to
do's and we have some code running on
our server that can hear that request
right
now
if we look at this line
we have two different things that we're
looking for
we are saying all right the request you
just made was it on
the main route
or was it on
the to-do's route the chat the request
that just came in when we logged in we
signed up or we typed in slash to Do's
what route are we talking about we
talking about the main routes are we
talking about the to-do's routes
[Music]
um
after we log in
after we sign up
where are we going
after we log in after we sign up where
are we being redirected to
right or if they type it in where are
they being redirected to to Do's so are
we talking about the main routes no
we've already done that the main routes
will be log in the main routes will be
sign up the main routes will be the home
page but we're talking about what
happens after we log in what happens
after we sign up or if the user is
already logged in and they type in slash
to Do's well
we are
on the to-do's route
right we're on the to-do's route and so
our server is now set up to hear that
request on the to-do's route now once it
hears that to-do's route it's going to
try and run
to do routes and I think a lot of people
get confused by this they're like all
right our server heard the request it
was localhost 2121 slash to Do's it's
set up to hear that request how does it
know
where to find the router remember the
router is what's going to connect us to
the controller right so how does it know
what router to use well we already have
it set up we said hey server if you hear
right if you hear something making a
request on a to-do's route here is the
routes I want you to use to do routes
well where the heck is the to do routes
if we looked at the top of our server.js
file we're going to see where to do
routes comes from
to do routes is going to require
a file called to Do's that is in our
routes folder right so in our routes
folder is a file called to Do's that's
going to hold all of the routes for
anything on to do's
right so we heard that request come
through we go and grab the to do routes
and we can see that the to do routes are
telling us to go into the routes folder
and find that to-do's file if we look at
our folder structure we're going to see
routes is a folder and to Do's is a file
inside of it right so in our server.js
slash to Do's right go to the to do
routes
where the heck the two routes come from
well to do routes requires us to go to
the routes folder and find the to-do's
file when we get there we see the router
for any single thing that may be on the
to-do's route
right anything that's on that to-do's
route is now handled by this router
right we can do anything we want now we
found the right router we can listen for
all of those requests right the router
hears the request that came through
all right the router here is the request
that came through
what type of request came through
what type of requests came through
foreign
was it a
post request
no
was it a put request
was it the other put request
no was it the delete request
no
it was the get request that came through
when we load this localhost 2121 slash
to Do's I could even hit enter right now
it's the same request that is a get
request
right that is a get request
our server was set up to hear the
request on to-do's to go and get the
to-do routes the to-do routes required
us to go into the routes folder find the
choose file and in that to Do's file we
have all the requests that we can listen
for
right we can listen for the get request
we can listen for the Post request that
would come from the forms we can listen
from the put request that would come
from the JavaScript we can listen from
the delete request that would come from
the JavaScript right but it was a get
request
and since it was a get request
we get to
check to see if the user is logged in
right that's the next step here right
that's the next step we already
confirmed that it's a get request the
next step is ensure off
that's the next step we just move on to
the next step
all right we move on to the next step
and this Ensure auth
all it is
a function
right we could see it up here all right
and sure off
right here we can see it is a variable
so we have to find where this variable
comes from and it's literally right
above
here we go and sure off
requires us
to go to a middleware folder
and find the auth JS file
right
and sure off requires us
to go to the middleware folder
and find right and find the off JS file
it's destructured we covered that in a
previous class but it's destructured and
the reason why it's de-structured is
because right now we're just ensuring
off we can do a lot of other things we
could have guest accounts we could have
some other things that are going to help
us as we start to expand the different
kinds of users that we're going to be
talking about
right
so
very simply we are grabbing and sure off
as a variable
right as a variable
right as a variable and we are using it
and to use that variable we have to go
to the middleware folder
and we have to
find
we have to find
that off file
cool
beautiful so let's go ahead and look at
that file
we go ahead and we look at it right we
said all right
we heard the get request
right
we're moving on to the insure off
to get insure off we're required to go
to the middleware folder and find the
off file all right here's the auth file
that's in our middleware folder
all right
we had to go to the middleware folder
and find the off file beautiful we're
here now we found the file in the
middleware folder that we're using
now
this code is asking one really important
question
all we're asking is hey
when the person made the request right
when that remember this whole thing is
about a request right this whole thing
is about a request so when the request
comes in
Timber
hey
I'm streaming buddy what are you doing
what's going on
huh
what was that
thank you
but
[Music]
thank you
all right
December found Simba
um so when Simba is hungry
they'll go get their bowl and bring the
bowl to us and if we don't pay attention
to them uh he'll sit and he'll start
like licking the bowl clean even though
there's nothing in it and so that's what
you heard is like the ding da ding ding
ding ding around the bowl
and now he's just sitting here yeah
all right so
we managed
to make it from hearing the get request
right
from hearing the get request
to running a function Leon what do you
mean it's a function all right well we
were required to go to the middleware
folder to find the off file let's take a
look at it this off file
exports an object right exports an
object that has a what
what is ensure off technically
it's a method right it's a it's a
function right it's a function but it's
a method because it's part of an object
right so
we can see here that ensure off right
right and sure off is a function
and that's why we're just telling it to
run
and the only thing it's going to do is
remember we're still talking about this
get request right we're still talking
about this get request
right and this get requests
can be looked at
and remember when we're sending requests
all this crap is being sent with a
request
oh all this stuff right all this stuff
is being sent with the request right and
now since we have passport running on
our server right we set up all the
passport stuff for us right
since passport is running when we're
sending this request
we can also see things like is someone
logged in
is there a session that is running for
this logged in user we'll see next week
like how the sessions work like where
the cookies are being stored and all
that stuff right and so
we can now see on that request if
the user
is authenticated that's it and when I
say authenticate it all I mean
is are they logged in
so this user made a get request and all
this crap had to happen
right all this crap had to happen and
now we're asking one question about this
request that came through and we're
saying hey
the request that just came through that
get request on the to-do's route that we
just heard
was there a logged in user
right
was there a logged in user and if there
is
all right move on to the next thing
you're good keep it moving right keep it
moving but if there was no one logged in
kick their butt back to the main page
right the get bounce it's a bouncer
exactly it's a bouncer the bouncer's
checking all right somebody made a get
request to slash to do's
were they logged in because if they're
logged in great move on to the next
thing
but if they were not logged in with the
person that was making that request was
not logged in send them back to the main
page
now
is authenticated is that something that
I coded
this and then your code
where's that magic coming from
no passport and the sessions and
technically like the HTTP methods to
support this stuff are doing all that
heavy lifting for us but that's not
something I have to worry about I can
just use this middleware whenever I want
to check if someone is logged in right
if I ever want to check if someone is
logged in boom I just use this
middleware I can just throw
I can just throw
ensure off on any route
I can throw insure off on any route that
I want to check if the user is logged in
that's it
any other time I ever want to see if a
user is logged in before letting them
get to a page is simply putting that in
the route before we get to our
controller
that's it you want to build a members
only section of your website boom
that's it
you want to only have people that are
logged in able to add to Do's boom
that's it
you want to sell your feet picks and you
don't want people to be able to see them
before they pay boom that's it
that's how you do it
you're done
cool
I was just uh no I was watching true's
newest video uh and so true walked
through uh the really wild DMS uh that
they and uh they had two guests get uh
and so that was one of the DMS so that's
why I just literally just watched it
before stream
uh so that's why it's in my brain oh let
me see if I can link to their video
which is good
shout out true
there you go
may maybe that's what we should do
maybe we shouldn't build Instagram maybe
we build only fans
hmm
I might have to change some stuff this
weekend anyway anyway uh
because none of y'all are hitting that
million Channel points so yeah oh they
did they did they built that they only
found the competitive
I'm out all right peace take care well
the door hitch on the way out
alrighty so we have this lovely and
short off
and this and sure off just makes sure
before
we get to
this controller we're gonna make sure
that the user is logged in all right so
the user is logged in
right the user is logged in
uh we had a couple people redeemed the
Pokemon cards recently uh we'll get to
the Pokemon cards during uh our next
kind of like office hours which will be
the review so I'll do all the drawings
then
cool
so
we now are sure that the person is
logged in and now all right now they're
logged in what controller are we going
to use what control uh
control the
control uh
I was running through the six with my
woes
I'm Gonna Leave This up here for real
quick you can get you can get hip I
gotta turn off an alarm I'll be right
back
and that's where the gold is buried so
you just have to make those two quick
lefts and then boom free gold all right
sorry that was a drake break I'm back
[Laughter]
my little one has like a breathing alarm
that's on them and it went off um but
it's just because my wife took it off
and didn't turn off the alarm so I just
went to make sure it was okay all right
so we heard the get requests all right
we heard the get request and
we make sure that that request the
person that made it they're logged in so
boom here's the controller that we're
going to use
all right here's the control we're going
to use it's the to Do's controller
to get to the twos can to Do's
controller it requires
that we go to the controllers folder and
find the to-do's controller
right to find the to-do's controller
and when we get there
what method are we going to use
right when we get there when we get to
this controller file right this
controller file has so many other
methods in it
create to do uh Mark complete Mark and
complete delete right so many different
methods that are tied to this controller
which one are we going to use well we've
already set it in the route
right we've already said hey when
there's a get request that comes through
right and it's on the to-do's route and
it's the main to-do's route
and we check to make sure that they're
logged in
then we can go to the to-do's controller
and we can use the get to Do's method
right the get to Do's method
wonderful now
once we're in the get to Do's method we
can do whatever the heck we want right
we can do whatever the heck we want
inside this get to this method we have a
lot of stuff that's going on but we're
in full control right we're in full
control of what this get to Do's does
and what I want it to do is to literally
go and get all of our to-do's right but
do I want every to-do chat
nope
I just want the to-do's
of the user
who is logged in
right and the cool thing is we can now
just do
wreck dot user remember whenever a
request is being made
all this stuff is being sent with the
request all this crap everything about
your computer all this stuff is being
sent with every single request
and now
since our users are logged in and we're
using passport behind the scenes we can
see a user property on that request
right we can see a user property on that
request and we can grab that user
property to do cool stuff with it so
let's actually see it
um
here we go is if we look at my terminal
that's running we can see the requests
that are coming in we can see the um the
the gets that are coming in for the to
Do's route and we can actually see that
when I make the get for the to-do's
route I'm grabbing the rec.user and boom
here's everything about the rec.user I
can see their ID
I can see their username I can see their
email I can see their encrypted password
right
and I can just grab that rec.user and
use it however I please
cool
all right
now now
that I have a logged in user
right I have a logged in user
and I
want to only get their to-do's
right
right now that I have a logged in user
and I only want to get there to Do's
well I can
just go to my database
and find the to Do's where the user ID
property matches the logged in user
whenever I created a to-do like in my
database whenever I created a to-do I
had a user ID property right in my
actual database each to do that I put
into my database I store that to do
along with the user that made the to do
so now that I'm retrieving my to Do's I
can just look through all my to-do's and
say all right the login user made this
one logged user made this one or login
user made this one and I can just go
through
right
we can go through right and grab just
the logged in users to do's
cool
now
if we want to go to the database if we
want to talk to the database and get
some to Do's what do I have to go
through what's the only thing in our MVC
architecture that enables us to talk to
the database now
the model exactly the model is the only
thing that enables us to talk to the
database and I have it right here I have
to do
bind and then the query I'm going to
make to my database however we're going
to notice that to do is capitalized and
it is a variable that would require us
to go to our models folder and find the
to do file and this model is the thing
that's going to enable us to talk to the
database so if we want to eventually
find right if we eventually want to find
if we actually went to find the to Do's
that are in the database well we have to
go through our model and we're telling
us where to go find the model we're
going to find the to do model by going
into our models folder and finding the
to do file now
once we get to that file
we're going to notice
that it's using mongoose
and Mongoose is the thing saying you
know what Liam I got this you want to
talk to the database I got this it's
going to handle all this stuff we need
to do to talk to the database right and
it's going to give us some structure
called our schema so when we get to this
file we're going to see a few key things
one we're using Mongoose which is how we
know in the background we're able to
talk to the database and do all that fun
stuff
we see the structure we're creating for
all of our to-do's that will be created
we can see whenever a to-do is being
created uh we're giving it the actual to
do that'll be a string we're going to
have a completed property of whether
it's true or false and we're going to
have a user ID which would be the logged
in user's ID at that time
right so
I can use this model to talk to the
database and Mongoose is doing all the
heavy lifting Mongoose is what's
connecting us to our database it's what
enabling us to use the models and it's
it's just it's just handling this for us
right and so there's a little bit of
um
there's a little bit of I don't say a
little bit of magic here because before
we used to see it directly we used to be
like all right DB was the variable
holding the connection then we say DB
collection right and then we do our fine
so it was a little bit more tangible
right there's like a little bit more
tangible where we would say all right
we're going to go to this database we've
already connected to we're going to go
to this collection Mongoose is handling
all that for us it's handling the
connection to the database and it's
handling kind of where we're going to to
find this stuff right so that's the
beauty of mongoose and the reason why we
use Mongoose is because it gives us a
way to model our application data right
what the heck does that mean
um if we take a deeper look at what
Mongoose does
is that
Mongoose is what's going to enable us to
have
a a a repeatable
structure
inside of our collections right Mongoose
is going to help us create all the
individual documents because remember
each of the documents right each of the
documents
are just what
each of the documents are just what
they're just objects and since they're
just objects we could really
we could really kind of do whatever the
heck
we want
right we could put in any values we
could put in any
um
any structure we wanted
and as we start working together
that becomes a problem
right that becomes a problem if anybody
can put whatever the heck they want into
our database and anyone can like modify
the documents that are going in each
collection that can get us into a lot of
weird situations where we're all not
really understanding the data what's
going into the database we won't even
might not even have access to the
database right none of you have access
to my database right now yet by looking
at my code you know exactly the
structure of my database because the
schema is giving us that structure you
know by looking at this schema every
document that's going to be put into our
collection will have a username an email
and a password at least for our users
right and then for our to-do's we know
that each to do is going to have a to do
property a completed property and a user
ID property you don't have to have
access to the database to know what type
of data is going into that database
what's been being stored there and
really underneath the hood
the models like our to do model and our
user model are just fancy Constructors
just like the Constructor functions we
used when we were learning oop it's the
same thing except the object they're
spitting out we're going to call a
document right so our models are really
just fancy Constructors that are
spitting out objects that go into our
collections of our mongodb database
right and so now we can see all right we
have our mongodb database each
collection is going to hold a certain
kind of documents that are described in
the model
just Constructors
exactly
and instead of calling in an object
we're calling it a document
right
that's it
cool
now the beautiful thing is once we add
to Do's or users right to our database
we always get these unique IDs that are
created for every document that is ever
created and we can use those unique IDs
to build out more and more complex
applications we can use these unique IDs
to figure out all right
what user made the to-do's right what
users logged in right all that wonderful
stuff because each document that is
created has a unique ID so
when we
are gathering all this data
right we're going to go to the manga DB
we're going to find all the documents
but in this case
we're only going to find documents where
the logged in user remember we got the
ID off the logged in user we're only
going to grab the documents where that
logged in user's ID
matches a user ID property on the
document every single time we created a
to do
right every single time we created it to
do we gave a user ID property that was
the logged in user's ID
right and we could see that if we just
scroll down
we can see the create to do function all
right when we create a to do is going to
have a user ID property and that
property is going to be the logged in
user's ID
all right
the logged in user's ID
what would you build or do with all the
object IDs well we're using them to know
what IDs what documents to grab right
if when we create the to do we're
creating a user ID property right
we can then use that user ID property to
just grab the documents of the logged in
users let's take a look at it all right
let's take a look
let's look at our database I'm going to
have two
I'm going to have two collections in my
database right I'm going to have a users
collection
and I'm going to have a to-do's
collection and then I also have a
session but we'll get to that next week
so here's my user Bob when Bob was
created you can see that a unique ID was
made
right
you can see that a unique idea was made
and it's it's zero C5
right so if Bob ever makes a to-do right
if Bob ever makes a to do what do we
expect to see on the user ID property of
that to do
if Bob ever makes a to-do what do we
expect to see on the user ID property of
that to do exactly we should expect to
see the zero C5 so let's go and take a
look at our to-do's
and if we look at our to Do's we can see
all right zero C5 so I know Bob made
first try
I can see Zero C5 and I can see second
try so I know Bob made that too but then
I look down here and I start to see
these other
these other user IDs so I know that
these have to be other users
right you have to be other users maybe
Sarah and maybe
Victor
all right
tell me when you all get ads because I'm
not seeing anything pop up on my end if
you get ads tell me that's when we'll
take our break because we should be
getting them like right now
no
well this was a bust I thought this
would help but uh
okay
alrighty folks let's take a break here
when we come back from the break we're
spend a little bit more time just really
trying to hammer home like how we're
able to get to Do's tie them to a
specific user we're gonna see a few
other more fun things and then we'll get
right into project night cool all right
let's take a break
gonna put five minutes on the clock
cool five minutes on the clock
I'm gonna run the ads see you all
soon
oh I said it did run an ad
oh ads they did start all right let's go
if you all hear the ads have already Run
for the other folks so I'll see you on
five all right folks come on back come
on back
mm-hmm
all right everybody come on in
yeah Amazon Smiles a real thing you just
do
smile.amazon.com and anything that you
purchase a small percentage of it goes
to the non-profit uh so a lot of 100
devs folks put in resilient coders so
that whenever they buy something off of
Amazon
um RC gets a little little chunk of it
which is pretty nice it actually adds up
pretty quickly
cool alrighty folks let's finish this up
so we
my dogs are the best
so
[Music]
Simba
in the other room
um because
they want him to come back and and try
to get the Bulls again
but my other dog can open doors
so the other dog went and let Simba out
the room and then Simba came back to me
and got his bowl to bring back to me
again it's like during the break put the
bowl away and puts him in the other room
and then as soon as I sit down my other
dog gets off the couch runs around hits
the door Simba comes out gets the ball
and comes back
laughs
project night folks Teamwork Makes the
Dream Work
that's awesome
alrighty
so
we've talked about this idea all right
let's just let's just take a look at it
we know that whenever we create a user
which is just creating a new document in
the user's collection we know that that
user has a unique ID that is created and
so what we are doing is whenever a to do
is made we're just putting that ID along
with the to do that way we know who made
the to-do's
excuse me why wouldn't we use like their
why wouldn't we use like a username or
why wouldn't we use like uh like
something else
like maybe eventually in our application
there could be people with the same name
right but there can only be one user
that has that unique ID it is unique
right and so it is distinct and so we
know for every to do which user made
that to do so when we go and talk to our
model to get those to Do's we can find
just the logged in users because
whenever a request is sent now
it has the logged in users info because
passport and the sessions running in the
background to make sure every request we
send has that information we can take
that information we can query our
database we can get just the to-do's
they created back and I can pass that
into my to Do's ejs it's in the game
right and it's just like we've seen
before uh we're we're running
uh oh
running through the I was running
through the six with my woes
all right we run through our to-do's we
pass through our views right and we're
passing each of those individual to Do's
into our ejs it's in the game ejs is
spitting out An Li for each to do and
then we render it
we render it and when we render it we've
passed that rendered HTML as our
response so that request came in went
through all these chains right went
through all these chains to render some
HTML and we respond with it learning to
Dev a thank you for the gift of Subs I
appreciate you thanks for being here
right
all of that just to generate the
response
send the to-do's back to our happy user
all right
so
I actually want to take a look at that
image one more time
I like this image at the very beginning
I'm a man I didn't put it at the end of
the slides there
a lot of stuff happens
right we went to localhost 2121 slash to
Do's we hit enter right since we're
already logged in that is a get request
right that is a get request all right
that is a get request
and that get request comes from our
client side from our user right from our
user right
comes from the client side that request
makes it all the way to our server our
server is set up to hear those requests
right it says oh it's a to-do's request
use this router file
once we get to that file we say all
right it was the root to do request
check to see that they're logged in if
they're logged in here's the controller
you're going to use and the method on
that controller boom we go to the
controller the controller it says all
right you want to use the get to Do's
method I got you go talk to your model
so that we can find all the to-do's so
we go to our model the model knows what
to do to talk to the database it finds
all the to-do's where the user ID
matches the logged in user once it has
all those to Do's the data is passed to
the Views by the controller the views
takes that data starts printing out Li's
for each of the to do's and then it
decides that it's right well it's done
rendering right it's done rendering that
HTML the controller has the HTML and it
responds back to the client with that
HTML
and if you understood 50 of that
10 second warning
five four three two one
[Music]
if you understand 50 of this
be proud of yourself
know how many people start this journey
and don't get past HTML
class one 7 400 people Class 2 5 200
people
one class what 2 000 people after one
class gave up
foreign class
we're on class 51 be damn proud
of yourself even if all the little bits
and Bobs don't make sense even if these
files are still a little scary that's
okay we're gonna go deeper with them
next week
we're gonna we're gonna actually look
through like all right how this how does
passport work how is it using the
session how is it doing the cookies
there's time for that right
but tonight's a Victory lap
Victory lap because you're still here
a Victory lap because you're starting to
understand some of this and it's
pretty wild right and the secret is
this is it
we add like image storage with S3 or
cloudinary and like whatever the hell
you want to build you can build with
just this stuff this is it any app you
could ever think of you can build with
just this there's nothing else extra
this is it you might add a little bit
more middleware if you want to handle
like emails might add a little bit more
middleware if you want to like process
credit cards but all that shit's also
just Lego pieces that you cut and paste
but everything's here
whatever you want to build it's just
this this is this is me revealing the
curtain right
this is it this is all that's left this
is if you get this you're done
you're you're you're already software
Engineers you're already full stack
developers but you can build full stack
web applications if you understand this
now we can add a little extra stuff we
can we can make maybe making our views a
little easier with react uh maybe we can
we can do a little bit different like
type of databases with like postgres but
like it's all the same
and you don't need any of it
you can build full stack web
applications with just this so if you
understand this code base right if you
take the time to understand this code
base you can build whatever the heck you
want
you're fully full stack
you're fully full stack we're gonna
introduce uh somebody said what about
audio storage I'm going to show you
cloud and area I like cloudinary it's a
little easier to use I think than S3 and
with cloud in there you can store any
kind of media you want to host videos
you want to host images you want to host
audio boom you want to build a podcast
website boom you got it it's it's just
that it we add one more thing and like
any type of app that you want
is easy to build
and so
I hope that you realize how close you
are and now it's just putting in the
work to build cool that's what
we're gonna do
over the next few classes we're going to
build cooler and cooler stuff we're
going to understand more and more what's
behind this starter code right we're
going to build the Instagram clone and
then we're going to build an app from
scratch so that we'll see all the pieces
coming together but this is it
you're there you did it
now let's do it together
all right
so
don't let your dreams be dreams
so just do it make your dreams come true
just
do it
yo learning to Dev what learning to Dev
did a tier three for three months thank
you and the gifted Subs uh
what day is it
I see you I see you I see you learning
to Dev
it's September
it's September the the longest sub the
more discounts you get
I see you thank you I appreciate it
that's dope
no like uh twitch like discount subs and
like the long use of the more it
discounts it uh so
learning is splashing out that's dope
thank you all right
so tonight don't let your dreams be
dreams
right tonight don't let your dreams be
build what you want to build
so last Tuesday the the goal was to at
least understand the code
right
all right
your goal is to at least
understand some of the code
right tonight
now you went through it again maybe you
watched mine will stream yesterday we
went through it again
right
now we're going to come back together
again
right to play and build on top of this
code first goal
first goal is to make sure
that everyone understands
right the code base make sure folks
understand what's happening make sure
everyone understands how
right everyone understands how
to make sure to Do's are making it into
the database make sure they understand
how to Do's are tied to individual users
and once everyone in your group feels
comfortable with how to Do's they're
being tied to individual users you're
able to understand the app a little bit
make it your own
right make it your own so you're going
to go to your room floor and table
assignments right if
there's no one at your table like if
your group doesn't show up that's okay
go to the fifth floor on room two and
find a new group
right if you didn't get a group last
Tuesday
Tuesday on well two two days ago
go to Remo on the fifth floor and find a
group
right
your goal is to use this code to build
something something different uh
Something Real uh something that you
work together to make look good
okay uh I have shared a replit which is
a version of this code it's the exact
same code from GitHub right but it's on
replit and the cool thing about that is
if you Fork the replet and use it you
can all collaboratively edit at the same
time so for some folks I knew they were
having a little bit of trouble like
getting GitHub and like working together
on GitHub and like creating a repo and
all like all that was kind of too much
so if that's like being a hindrance to
you right now that's okay we'll have
longer stretches of time for longer
projects where you can figure all that
out but the replit might be a good place
to start because you can all just like
code together pretty easily and it
doesn't matter like how decent
somebody's computer is
all right
cool
uh Rascal said for those who have
replets breaking hit the three dots show
hidden files click the replit file and
change the entry point to server JS yeah
entry point server JS cool if we do want
to use GitHub suggestions on how to use
it work the repo and then add everyone
to your forked repo that's kind of
that's kind of it
yeah then you can just add people to
your to your repo
how do we manage mongodb as a group you
can just whitelist the IP address of
whatever uh mongodb instance that you
use so if you just pick one person to
create their mongodb instance right and
then just whitelist the IP address
that's the easiest you can also add
people to your mongodb instance for some
reason I always like is weird for me
um yeah
glitch is Good vs code live share is
decent
um yeah
cool
alrighty so we are going to leave the
Hollywood Halls of twitch and move over
to Remo uh please go to your back to
your room floor table from Tuesday if
for some reason something weird happens
nobody from your group shows back up
that's okay just go get a new group
fifth floor and up on uh Remo room two
all right everybody have a wonderful
night working on this I'm gonna be on
Remo hanging out I'll probably stop by
quite a few of your tables to say hello
and see how things are going maybe lend
a hand if I can be kind if you can't be
kind don't show up remember we're all
here to learn first that's the primary
goal don't use new stuff we haven't
covered yet really make sure everyone at
your table understands this code base
add to it and build something cool
make it look good it'll be due on
Tuesday have a wonderful rest of your
night as you work on this stuff I'll be
hanging out with you for a little bit uh
and then over the weekend I hope you
have a good holiday weekend if you're in
the US no office hours on Sunday because
it is that holiday weekend we'll do the
the super review the following week and
I'll see you all back here on Tuesday to
start building bigger apps with this
code base if you have more questions uh
get on Discord ask your questions in The
Help Channel make sure you're hitting up
the stream team I'll share mindless
review class uh in the follow-up message
to this but uh please we're Community
taught get help from the community be a
community tonight work well together be
kind help each other and let's build
some cool
Let's go people have a good rest tonight
see you on Remo
peace no raid
hey
yeah hey
hey does this work yeah
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you are doing well
so Leon Raves well back in the day let's
just say what's going on everybody hope
everyone's doing well welcome back hope
you had a wonderful weekend a long
weekend for the folks here in the states
hey welcome back
hey does this work hope it works
I think I lost my other sounds though
with the move for those that follow me
on Twitter you know that I uh I had a I
moved my desk
if there was a problem it took me all it
took me the long weekend
yeah it was pretty bad it's got roasted
on Twitter about my wires it's okay they
look clean as hell now though
I gotta finish a few things then I'll
post a follow-up but uh
it's beautiful now it's it's it's this
is this is a this is a dream room
let me let me paint the picture for you
real quick so I'm not gonna post out I'm
gonna paint the picture for you while
folks get in here I still have to fix
quite a few things like my lighting is
mad off right now so I'm gonna look like
a tinge of green that's okay though
we'll live for one class
um and I gotta fix the the lighting on
the on the green screen but uh let me
paint a picture as folks get in here and
then we'll get our questions in uh
beautiful computer setup
right box lighting
a desk that goes up and down uh three
months three monitors the the beautiful
micro XLR setup laptop PC next to it
egpu behind it Nas on top of that right
then we have going up the the the the
the corner of the wall
the Pokemon collection
it might get replaced with plants but
for now it's the boxes we got some we
got some Pokemon blue yellow Crystal
Emerald what you want I got it
we got graded ungraded whatever you need
I got you and then and then it doesn't
stop folks because you just keep going
to the right beautiful workbench 3D
printer
full soldering setup
VR ugh dream room folks stream room uh
so I'll share the photos and then you
look on the floor no wires no wires
no wires it's clean it's clean thank you
for everybody that gave me uh that gave
me Cable Management advice like it
really helped like it really helped I
got these like under desk like mounts
for like
um for power strips Game Changer uh and
so yeah thank you for the help I
appreciate it glad you're all here let's
get into some questions uh I ran the ads
at the beginning I'll start them I mean
I forgot to start them so there's like
three minutes before I should have
started them but I also going to start
them like right as we start so uh do
with with what that knowledge you may uh
but we're gonna run three minutes at the
beginning that way folks don't have to
sit through them during uh Stream So as
always like to start off with some
questions if you got questions I got
answers I wanted to let people know why
I look a little weird while like my
shoulders will be lit I gotta dial in
the uh the lights
proof for bam
yeah it is it is it is quite the setup
I'm very proud of it and the best thing
about my setup the best thing about the
setup is I didn't pay for it
I didn't pay for it
when you when you have these tech jobs
you you can you can negotiate
you can negotiate professional
development funds and sometimes when you
negotiate for you can it could be
Hardware it could be software it can be
trips to conferences
do with that knowledge what you may so
we're gonna actually talk about that
when we talk when we have our how to
negotiate your offer class we're going
to talk about all the little things that
folks don't negotiate that they should
probably should that actually have like
a real tangible benefit uh on your
day-to-day yeah
so if you're working from home you
should be getting working from home
stipend as something you should be
negotiating for so we'll talk all about
that as we get into the hunt but yeah so
that's the beautiful part
foreign
all right if you got questions I got
some answers
see I always like to give folks a few
seconds to get in here I know we took a
little bit of time so only do a few
questions here
what was the latest thing you 3D printed
um anyone remember floating had Leon
yeah I gotta bring that back what was
the latest thing you 3D printed uh I 3D
printed a
um picture frame like a circular picture
frame it's pretty Ballin it's like a
circular picture frame and um somewhere
maybe I'll grab it during break but yeah
it's pretty
I needed a picture frame so I printed
one
you 3D print me a job I'll try
all right
well people who don't make it to October
see the data structures and algorithms
classes absolutely
um so the the destruction algorithm
classes will all be live here on Twitch
all the things you're going to need like
anything you need to be ready for the
hunt anything you need to be complete in
terms of your software engineering
knowledge to get the job will be
completely live and done here I think
some people are still kind of panicking
over a little bit about that
everything you need will be live in fact
everything that you need
is already on YouTube like last cohort
like all like if you're if you're
jonesing you're ready to to just hit the
ground running uh it's already it's
already on YouTube so like it's already
there right so you don't have to panic
at The Freak Out like everything you
need not only not only are we going to
cover it for you but it's already there
for you
right like
like that that's there so don't worry
about that what the point of hunt Tober
is is there are quite a few folks that
are ready to get serious about the
actual job search right
right about the actual job search and so
since we have such a strong group of
folks that are ready for the hunt I want
to have some time where I can focus on
them where I can invest a lot of time to
make sure that they're successful to
make sure that they get the help that
they need that we can go a little bit
deeper into the things that they might
need on the hunt and be able to answer
questions in real time each day right
and so that's the um
that's that's the that's the idea right
it's just a month to focus on folks that
are ready to go into the hunt that way I
can provide a little bit more support on
The Daily uh to make sure that we get a
little bit more practice in together but
all the core stuff you need boom will be
on will be on uh twitch for sure
um
last last time we did the mega month we
called it Mega month or Mega summer last
time uh what it will end up being is
pretty much every day we would meet at
the same time we would do a coding
challenge together and the coding
challenge was just built right we
started with strings and arrays right
and then we built up to all the way up
to using things like hash maps and more
complicated data structures but each day
kind of built right right
kind of built on top of each other right
kind of built on top of each other so
that way it just gave folks a little bit
more practice every day on the data
structures and algorithms and then I had
some period of time where I would answer
questions that were coming up Leon how
do I negotiate this or Leon how do I
um
how do I how do I deal with this like
thing that's coming up in the interview
or things like that so just a little bit
of focus time for folks that are ready
to go on the hunt that's all it'll be
um
and then also just a chance to to Really
to to to to help those folks with a few
extra things they might need while
they're going through the hunt uh I'm
prepared folks I'm ready uh we brought
in the big guns uh we have folks helping
us with the new little one uh they're
here on Tuesdays and Thursdays now to
get to get me having some extra time to
be live and do this and then they're
going to be helping us throughout the
week uh during October so
um I'm locked and loaded I brought in
the big guns I brought in the help
so we're gonna have a a really strong
time where we can focus and make sure
everybody gets the help that they need
so that's the beauty of hunt over that's
what we're trying to bring to the table
and I'm really excited to see everyone
working so hard to to take that month
seriously but like I said we also have
the illustrious the wonderful the
charismatic ketchup crew and uh
everything that they need will also
always be live right so it's it's it's
not something if you can't make it for
this brief period of focus if we can
figure out how to do this well I'm going
to do it again right and I think that's
I think that's the mindset I've been
having with 100 devs recently is like
no one's ever done this before right
there's no blueprint for me to follow uh
so I'm trying things some things really
work and some things really don't right
and so unfortunately you all are the
guinea pigs as we go through like the
first real cohort at scale right we've
done a smaller cohort but this is a
chance for me to figure out what works
what doesn't work uh it's a chance for
me to figure out like all right project
night what worked about it what didn't
work about it right like that's a big
thing to take away from it and the next
cohort will just be better right and so
thank you for helping me iterate thank
you for helping me figure out all the
Kinks and uh
uh let's make it so that folks in the
future have an even better experience
that's the goal right
100 guinea pigs exactly
cool
all right thank you for the questions uh
checking in uh if you have not checked
in please go ahead and check in
exclamation point check-in we'll give
you the link right we'll give you the
link uh if you click the link you still
have to like and retweet it uh there
will be
um
there will be
nothing that like checks you in stream
here you actually have to do the leg and
retweeting on Twitter I have to keep
saying because people keep forgetting
all right
cool
uh submitting your work uh checklist was
due I want that but your project is also
due
um this shouldn't say checklist this is
a project
I want your project from Project night
or project week right uh from Project
week I want your lovely wait did I say
class 51 in the thing no it's class 52.
this project project night okay I just
save it to you yeah because project
night was uh 51. so yeah I want your
checklist which is your last day I'm
still bigly I'm sorry uh I want your
checklist is the last day to submit the
checklist and I want your project Night
Show Me What You Got
right I don't care how deep you got into
the project I don't care how far you got
how many changes I don't care if your
team ghosted you or whatever I want to
see where you're at show me what you got
right
um not looking for Perfection I'm
looking for where you got with your
project right
cool
uh GitHub repo or live site
um whatever you whatever you want to
share uh whatever you want to share
whatever is easiest to share is okay
uh do we all submit yes you should all
submit your your site
yeah you should all submit even if
broken yes even if broken
if it's broken probably submit your repo
learn so much from this project week
also a lot of headache to deal with when
it comes to GitHub yeah that's kind of
the point right these these working as
groups
kind of it does a lot of different
things right it's one thing to work on a
project by yourself it's also it's a
completely different thing to work on a
project with others right and so the
beautiful thing is that with these
project nights we learn right like we
figure out what works what doesn't work
um unfortunately sometimes at project
nights you don't get like you're
bringing hundreds of people together so
it doesn't always work out for everyone
and that's unfortunate like you might
have had trouble finding a group or
keeping a group together over the week
that's that's that's going to happen but
we'll do quite a few of these and more
often than not you can wind up with a
really great group so if project night
wasn't something that really worked out
for you this past week that's all right
Buckle in we'll do another one where you
can meet some other really cool people
but it seems like from chat a lot of
people had a really good experience had
a lot of fun working with their group
um
and so I hope that
um you got something out of it and we're
gonna do a couple more because like I
said it's really important to get used
to working with others and as we learn
more stuff right as our projects get
bigger and bigger we're going to start
adding some ways to manage your code
right that makes it easier to work with
others and we'll start introducing some
processes like agile and doing sprints
and stuff like that so we'll have some
chances to do more projects in a more
like coherent matter as we get further
along we learn more so just know if
that's something you want and that you
enjoyed uh we'll be doing a few later on
it was scary for me I didn't want to
mess things up but I learned a lot hey I
love to hear that right yeah and that
that's why we do it now right we we do
the scary stuff now so that when we're
on the job we're a little less scared
the brick stuff
all right
all right so thank you for submitting
both your checklist last day and your
project night wherever you got from what
you got
uh back in review will be Sunday so
we're gonna start at 1 p.m eastern time
and we're gonna go until we go so we're
gonna try and review everything back end
uh going all the way back to the
beginning we're talking kind of uh
promises All the Way Forward uh so if
you kind of are still a little uh unsure
about a few things come come ready with
lots of questions let's dig in and uh
get through it cool so we'll try and
build all the way up to kind of our MVC
with off class
uh hunttober we kind of already talked
about this a little bit but coming up uh
things that I need you to get done with
the deadlines we check in every class
you do your homework which is a week
done always we do a week later uh your
net week net weekend your networking uh
please bring that back into the fold at
least one coffee chat a week and at
least three connections every week so
make sure that you're keeping your sheet
updated exclamation point sheet if you
haven't been doing it uh I will be uh
asking for your sheets in the near
future to see that you've been doing uh
the networking alternatives are for
folks that have an actual issue that
would prevent them from networking most
folks that have an issue that would
prevent them from networking have
priority reached out to me like on mod
mail or something like that but if you
actually have something that debilitates
you from networking uh you can do things
that can help you network in your way so
that could be text-based networking that
could be groups things like that so we
actually in our networking class talk
through Alternatives so if you're
interested in that definitely watch that
class and all the Alternatives that we
presented but that's that's really just
for folks that seriously have something
that would impact them from networking
because it is so important to the job
hunt
all right you're doing a coding
challenge every day don't forget you're
pushing your challenges every day to a
private repo but you have your green
squares turned on for private repos
you're doing the bank
and this week we're moving on to arrays
right
I was raised
[Laughter]
get out of here that's funny I gotta VIP
them I don't know if I can VIP either
with that username
[Laughter]
uh this week a raise uh so last two
weeks we did strings uh this week we're
doing a raise
and uh in Discord I shared
I shared uh readings and a video for you
to watch about a Race So uh on Discord I
have the javascript.info arrays uh which
we did when we covered arrays in in
program uh so that's a really good just
refresher and all the array methods uh
there is a free code Camp
um article on destructuring a lot of
folks were confused about the
structuring and I forgot that we had
redone strings and I hadn't actually
shared the reading with you my bad thank
you for the engagement though uh and so
the the reading on destructuring is
there and then there's a video on arrays
as well from web dev simplified which
has a lot of amazing who has a lot of
amazing videos and so
um those are kind of your homework for
this week to bring a raise back into the
fold and you're doing at least five code
Wars all tagged as a raise so
make sure you are
just doing array problems right
all right
all right make sure you're just doing
array problems and uh focus on that so
the reason why we're doing like strings
and then arrays and then we're going to
do objects is that by the time we get to
hunt Tober and by the time we get to our
data structures and algorithms classes
we can rely on this Bank of information
that you've already been building up you
should be putting these into your Anki
like all the methods should be in your
Anki this is something you're going to
need for all of your interviews and then
when we get to our data structures and
algorithms we understand like why some
methods are better than others we kind
of understand the complexity behind them
how much time and space different things
are taking up and then we build off of
that for our optimizations so if you
don't already have the strings the array
the objects and all those methods kind
of ingrained in your memory it's going
to be a little bit harder to build off
of them in a month or so so when I
assign these These are these are some
really important bits I need you to be
working on each week because it's going
to help us have a nice springboard
for our data structures and algorithms
class
some people are saying GitHub is down so
um we'll leave we'll leave the the
homework open uh until Thursday so that
if for some reason GitHub is uh
giving you some trouble uh also
tonight's gonna be a little bit
different of a class we're going to talk
through uh the rest of the auth code
that we haven't talked through and we're
going to plan out our social network so
um we might end a little bit early so
you can actually look at the code and
hopefully GitHub is up when we do that
uh under does bringing down GitHub let's
go
um but yeah so a race this week super
important
you know what not serious enough let's
go to the Border
super important
that you get this array work done if you
didn't do the string work this is this
is your this is your sign to do the to
do the string work and then follow the
array work this is really important it's
our springboard into doing well in our
technical interviews I need you to have
this base level of knowledge uh so that
we can uh do well during our interviews
cool
foreign
if somebody asked you to use regex in an
interview I would just I would just I
would get up and leave
I just get up and leave
oh it's not gonna work out I'm sorry
I appreciate your time
thank you for the coffee but
please don't call me
all right
uh last day please turn in your
checklist if you want to be part of
hunttober I need your checklist today
all right team project we already said
do today boom uh hit list do Tuesday
next Tuesday Hit List is due folks
um and I don't need I don't need it
fully filled out like I don't need all
the complex stuff that we're going to
cover together when we do it in class I
just need the companies that you're
going to apply to
right so I need the companies that
you're going to apply to
I want at least 40 by next week 40 open
positions that you're going to apply to
right 40 open positions that you're
going to apply to by the end of our
October you'll have 60 and you will have
built out those 60 that have at least
three people at each company that you
can contact right so I need 40 at least
by next just like doing this I need 40
by next week of companies with open
roles that you could actually apply to
what happens if the position close after
we selected nothing you can do about
that The Hit List will be like a living
breathing document like The Hit List
like I don't know how like
this is going to be like what you do
every day all day is The Hit List uh
it's gonna be something that you're
gonna be using every single day is
something that you're gonna be
um
really invested in uh by the end of
October and so get comfortable with it
now start adding those companies uh and
uh yeah
I'm gonna ask for that next Tuesday
our three connections already be
targeted towards The Hit List I think
once you have your hit list done
hint hint hint uh your networking will
become focused on just those companies
right so we'll no longer be doing just
kind of like General networking your
networking will be to meet Folks at
those companies that could ultimately
give you a referral and uh we'll talk
through all that yeah so for now I don't
need you to do anything fancier with
your hit list and find the open roles
that you're going to apply to that are a
decent fit and then we'll have a whole
class on how to fill out your hit list
and then we're going to fill out some
folks Hit List live we had uh two folks
that won uh Raffles for me to do their
Hit List live so we'll do that live
together I'll show you all the tips
tricks secrets I'll even share the
messages that I would send uh and you
can all do that together
uh so safe to assume that our next
company you work at is on our Hit List
most likely for most of you the company
you end up working at will be on your
hit list so when you add these companies
to The Hit List talk about some
manifesting right like come on now like
you're putting these companies on here
because that's where you're going to
wind up working right there's nothing
more real than that
um also a lot of you will start to have
once you start the hunt and you're doing
things correctly you're actually going
to have some inbound interest too and we
gotta go back to the boardroom for this
uh we have the hundred devs job board
that will be launching with huntober uh
met with a wonderful company that runs
software for job boards uh that is we
already have it up it's already up and
running and I'm going to start reaching
out to companies to get them to post
their jobs on the job board uh for folks
that complete the program you'll be
invited to create a profile on the job
board and my goal is to start bringing
like top tier companies to that job
board to hire top to your talent uh so
that's gonna be one of the perks that
we'll start with October
[Music]
um
we'll start small kind of with that
group make sure it all works and then
kind of keep blowing it out so yeah
that's uh that's the beauty of what
we're trying to work towards yeah so
that was fun I did that last week
uh it looks pretty pretty crispy and so
it's gonna be fun fun bringing lots of
employers on there and then uh bringing
you all in there to help you get some
jobs too so yeah that's gonna be uh I
think that's one of the there's like
couple
big missing pieces right and I've talked
a lot I talked to some about this in the
past like
I want ways for folks to make money
while they're going through this
experience I think that's important I
think that's actually what Equity is is
not just offering free education but a
way to like support yourself while
you're doing it I think the agency could
be that piece and then one of the bigger
pieces is like getting you a job and
before it's kind of just been like hey
go out there get the job which I think
you should always 100 do but I have so
many companies that ask and want to
Target you all specifically they see how
successful the past cohort has been and
so bringing employer Partners into the
mix to help you ease into that job
transition is I think one of the last
big pieces and I'm going to say full
stop I can't do it by myself I'm gonna
be asking for a lot of help as we kind
of keep going forward
um and so if that's something you're
excited about talk about 100 maintainers
and fun stuff like that uh it's gonna be
something that we're we're gonna be
trying to push
um and then we're going to take some
time to get it right like I think folks
keep asking for another cohort and I
wouldn't feel comfortable with another
cohort until we kind of get those things
like hammered down right like I want I
want folks to have like the complete
experience and I think that's part of it
you know
cool
all right 27th client signature approved
PR on an actual open source project
um I love all of the open source
projects that are like
come learn how to contribute to open
source but I want it to be like a real
project
um something that is a real like
organization that's real code like a
real Library real framework real like
something real something that when
somebody says oh that's pretty dope like
that's what you did wonderful right uh
or volunteering for a Grassroots
organization uh so that's due the 27th
your MVP
holy crap this is this this is this is
pretty close
you're a beautiful MVP for your 100
hours project is due the 27th do you
need both no you just need one you just
need one of these things either you got
your either you got a paid client you
volunteer for a Grassroots org or you
got a pull request at an actual like
free software open source project
like a real project
your MVP remember MVP is just the bare
bones like proof of concept for your
application
um
21 days to MVP hell yeah let's go and
the beautiful thing is if we get through
what we need to get through tonight and
we get through what we need to get
through tomorrow you have the full
template for your MVP already like by
the end of tomorrow as long as GitHub
stays up I'm Sorry by the end of
Thursday as long as GitHub stays up
you'll have the template for your MVP
it's just figuring out what you're going
to do to add to it change it what
features you're going to add stuff like
that
yeah
and then
the 11th your 100 hours project is due
October 1100 hours project is due and
then your premium Mass which we haven't
talked about yet will be due as well
uh and we're gonna be sharing a lot of
stuff that I think is how to play the
game it's up to you to figure out how
and what you want to do to play the game
right so that's coming through and then
my last little device I know this is a
lot so whenever I say all these things
that are doing all the things I need you
to be working on I always want to follow
up with don't take yourself out the game
let the game take you out it's not going
to put in all this work you put in all
this energy right don't take yourself
out the game you got this
all right
so uh tonight I want to wrap up off I
want to walk through the code base I
want to answer any questions that you
might have I want to look at a few
quirks and features that we haven't had
a chance to talk about yet and then uh
we'll take our top of the hour break and
when we come back we're going to plan
out our social network so I think a lot
of folks are still having a little bit
of trouble figuring out how like a
really like an app with a lot of
features would come together right and
how we might actually build something
real so our goal is to build a social
network for a hundred devs uh an
Instagram clone was what we'll kind of
start off with and we might add some
stuff that goes our different ways
[Music]
um
we can't call it Instagram we couldn't
call it quick kilo so we want a quick
pound but uh your question of the day is
what should we rename it last cohort
decides to rename quick pound to Binary
upload boom because you were like
uploading photos uh but we're going to
lay that out we're going to talk through
it together we're going to scaffold how
the application can come together we're
going to talk through all the bits and
Bobs that we might need and then uh your
homework will be to look at the binary
upload boom code set it on Thursday we
can walk through it fully understand
everything comes together and then
extend it add some new features things
that that might not already be there
cool
devgram
only Bob's devs United ooh photo show
only but I like only Bobs that's pretty
cool rapid snap ooh rapid snap
slowgram only devs
only devs is actually pretty good I'm
sure somebody's done that already
peekaboo
show
oh boy all right we're gonna do like a
poll or something keep sharing them
we'll go back and pick the best ones
we'll do a poll before the end
all right uh let's go ahead and wrap
this off up I am looking at the to do
MVC off with local authentication code
that's where we're starting today uh
right now I already have it running
and so uh on Port 2121
did you all hear that did you all hear
anything when I press this but do you
hear anything
no oh
no
hold on
anything
or anything
hey does this work or anything twenty
one twenty one twenty one or anything
we lost our our sound board with the
move
no God
no God please no no no no
no
no all right rip was a good run
it was a good run uh we'll have to
re-record them
I have the first one I don't know I
don't have the 2121 and not the
application one
all right
let's take a look at this code so uh
there are some things that we haven't
had a chance to actually talk through uh
and so we've kind of taken a process
here right
like
like I showed one
right you built one and then you work
together to build another right so there
you've kind of had a chance to work in
this code base you heard the 2121 I
think y'all playing with me you did hear
it I just don't hear it
huh all right I'll have to watch back
the VOD all right that's really
reassuring all right beautiful I just
don't hear it in my headphones for some
reason I hear all the other ones I don't
hear those all right cool we're good
okay
yeah I did get caught
I did all right so let's walk through
this we're gonna look through the bits
and Bobs that folks have been asking for
I'm gonna talk a little bit in detail
about sessions which are really
important uh folks have asked a lot
about Flash sessions uh folks have asked
a little bit more about the the models
and how those are working and so
uh so we're gonna walk through these
right right we're gonna talk through
these and then we are going to take our
top of the hour break so uh just kind of
going from top to bottom here uh Express
obviously is what we're using to build
out our API uh it is everything that
helps us handle everything between like
the requests and the response so we hear
these requests coming in and what the
heck do we do and it stops us from
having the hard hand code all of those
things like we started from the mud
right we started at the very beginning
coding raw HTTP raw FS right and build
an app with just that and now we use
express to actually build out a more
Rich API instead of having to hard code
all of that stuff and then instead of
having to constantly say Express we wrap
all of that in app which is pretty
common now
to handle us talking and interacting
with our mongodb database when we first
started off we were just using raw
and the raw client right now we're
using Mongoose which helps us do a lot
of fancier stuff to interact with our
database it's going to help us do
um a lot of things when we're just using
like our models and it's going to help
us connect a little bit easier so
Mongoose is doing the heavy lifting for
anything that has to do and interact
with our database passport we talked
about over the last two classes is the
package that's helping us handle our
authentication and the beautiful thing
about passport is passport has what chat
what does passport have
it does have authentication it has
strategies exactly so passport is
handling our authentication but it has
strategies and once you have an
application you can swap out those
strategies to do different stuff so we
are using a local strategy but if we
wanted to
um let's do passport Js
if we wanted to we can go to passport
js's website and then you can see right
on their main site they have these
lovely strategies and their strategies
for whatever the heck you want uh so
Google off right so if you wanted to
authenticate with Google if you wanted
to use any of the fancier like oauth
type stuff
if you wanted to authenticate with
Twitter right so maybe your 100 project
is a a Twitter app of some sort right
well boom you can authenticate with
Twitter if you wanted to
um
just a lot of different stuff and these
are all just different strategies for
any type of login access that you'd want
to do and so that's the beauty of using
passport you have one type of like just
use our code template and then any type
of login
or authentication that you want to do
it's very easy to add and the other cool
thing is that you can even add to what
we have here so folks could do local or
Google or things like that and so if
you're really interested in um
adding other types of authentication to
your applications we saw the Google auth
in the Traverse media that was assigned
for homework and if you go on my YouTube
I used Microsoft auth as well so just
different types of sign up should you
want them and kind of talking through
some of the benefits you might get if
you use those types of off versus local
and some of the things you might give up
so if you're curious about other
authentications that you could do with
passport I have a video using Microsoft
off on my YouTube and then also just the
homework that we did boom where do you
add that strategy so we have the
passport JS file in our config right so
you can see that this is requiring
passport which is our actual package
like the npm package but down here you
can see us requiring our actual passport
JS file we're saying we require you to
go to the config folder and find the
passport file and when we look in this
passport JS file you can see that we're
using a local strategy right and we are
we're using that local strategy we could
replace this local strategy with any of
the other strategies that we find on
this website so if we wanted Twitter
boom
uh it's gonna have everything that you
would need for the Twitter strategy and
normally they link right to GitHub
um so you would probably install this
npm passport installed Twitter and then
there would be the code that you could
grab right here
right
you grab that code
you plop it into the template that we
already have and it's pretty much it the
doc suck some of the some of the docs
are pretty rough because they have over
500 different strategies that we're all
pretty much done by different people and
maintained to different levels so
sometimes the
um
some of the more obscure stuff is a
little rough and some of the more
commonly used stuff is a little bit
better and so that's that's the the rub
uh you got to find the one that you want
to use yeah the great thing is that
passport is so ubiquitous that you can
typically find a tutorial or things like
that that walk through different
strategies can you do multiple
strategies yes
um
uh you can in fact the start up
uh let's see if we can find the
hackathon starter uh as an example I
showed on on stream before I'll put this
in chat just for folks that are curious
I haven't used this in a little while
I'm not sure how up to date this is it
looks like the last commit was in March
um so I'm not sure if it's the the best
thing I've used it in the past uh but
it's been a while since I've used it the
cool thing is you can see in their
config probably that their passport JS
is using it has all the strategies
it has all the strategies look look
Instagram local Facebook Snapchat
Twitter twitch GitHub Google LinkedIn
open ID like it has all the strategies
and so when you go into their login page
which I think they have a
um
yeah I think this is like the hosted
version
cool when you go to create an account
or sorry login you see how they have all
the different logins here that's because
they have all the strategies already
implemented uh so something that you
might do is if you're like hey Leon I'm
really interested in Snapchat
authentication right I'm really
interested in Snapchat authentication
you could go to like passports website
and find it or you could just go
straight to the hackathon starter look
at their actual code base and see how
they implemented the
um the Snapchat uh strategy right and
then you could just come down here
um you they kind of have it really well
commented sign in with Snapchat you
could just literally yoink this
all right you link it
put that inside of your passport JS file
and make sure you have the require up
here and then you'll probably have to
install an npm package for it so there's
kind of like three steps you need to do
you would need to one install the npm
package tied to it probably like
passport Snapchat or passport Twitter
but you can always find that on the site
or look at their um their package.json
right make sure you have the package
installed grab the requiring of the
strategy and then just grab the strategy
from here plop it in and then you have
Snapchat auth right and there's a little
bit of things you have to
get comfortable with with how different
authentications work but once you
understand that like you're passing
tokens back and forth
um or other fancy stuff it becomes a
little bit easier I'll link my video on
Microsoft off in the follow-up materials
just in case you wanted to use any of
these other strategies you could watch
that video to have a better
understanding of how different non-local
authentication strategies actually work
yeah
cool but that's the beauty right the
beauty is we have
built our authentication on top of
passport passport and since we have
passport we can swap in and out or even
use these different strategies whenever
we really want and so
super I know it seems like you know it's
a lot of code it's it's not you're
really grabbing three things and none of
this just to reiterate because people
always kind of get a little scared when
I put this big file on here none of this
is anything right none of this is
anything that you would ever have
memorized right this is literally all
right I know I'm going to use passport
somebody has put in the time and energy
to make this work to handle all the
heavy lifting when it comes to
authentication I'm going to use their
hard work and their Brilliance to build
this out right unless you're like a
cyber security researcher is this
something you're really interested in or
there's some weird authentication that
you want to use that they don't support
and you want to build it out that's the
only time you would ever really kind of
mess with this and build it out right
uh local strategy just means you're
logging in yeah you're creating an
account you're having in this case email
and password like your your
authentication is local to this
application it's not being authenticated
by some other provider
um someone said are any other
authentications better than another not
really
but when you use certain authentication
strategies you get some stuff built in
right now
is there anything stopping people from
creating accounts on our application
right
like we could build out some more robust
stuff but right now
there's nothing stopping somebody from
creating a bazillion accounts which
could be a problem
um there's nothing that's really helping
us with
authenticating if they're like real
people or not and so some of the
off-the-shelf authentications like the
Google off the Microsoft off they kind
of handle that for you right it's it's a
little bit more difficult to create a
Google account a little more difficult
to create a a Microsoft account than it
would be to just create a local account
on your application so you if you use
these kind of like third-party
authentication Services you get some of
that stuff built in uh you also can get
some
you can also get some support when it
comes to storing information about your
users right the original don't get got
we go get comes from me implementing the
Microsoft off because
with local strategies we're handling all
that stuff the usernames the passwords
all that stuff it's something that we're
handling but when you use a third party
off they're handling that for you and
often they have teams of cyber Security
Experts that are like employed to make
sure that that's robust it's secure can
handle things like
um
text message verifications to factor off
right all that stuff you're going to
wind up using maybe like a third-party
provider to help you with right and so
some folks instead of saying you know
what instead of me trying to we call it
rolling our own two-factor
authentication rolling our own
um
email and phone verification right
instead of just setting all that up
which we can set up with twilio and a
bunch of other stuff instead of sending
all that stuff up on our end we can use
these third-party services that handle
all that for us and that's kind of it
mm-hmm so it's up to you whether or not
you feel like that is something you need
and in the beginning the answer is no
when you're building out your MVPs for
your 100 hours project and probably when
you're building out your 100 hours
project you're probably just going to
use local off because that's not the
meat and potatoes no one's going to look
at your application and go damn that's
some good off code right there right
right no one's gonna say like ooh oh
yeah yeah that that that's some good
that's some good off nobody's ever going
to look at that and be like damn that's
great off right they're gonna care about
the application that you built they're
going to care about what your
application does so it's something I
don't really want people to stress about
early on just use this and move on
right just use it and move on
if you find that it can be cooler to add
something at it later once you have your
application built cool
so that is our passport now these next
two this session and this store
these are both there to help us have
logged in users right so there's
something really special about our
application that's happening where our
users are able to say logged in so let
me actually demonstrate some of this and
then we'll talk through it so
let me go to my app here uh I am running
cool I'm going to log in
and I'm going to do Bob at bob.com and
I'm going to do Bob
is the password
and now I'm logged in right not anything
that we haven't seen before right I
think we haven't seen before but here's
something special so we're currently on
our to-do's page logged in if I go back
to the main page
right if I go back to the main page
and I click login what's going to happen
if I click login right now what's going
to happen
yeah it's going to redirect me straight
to the to do's
boom I'm going straight to the to do's
how the heck did my application no to
send me straight to the to do's
and more importantly how did my
application know
right how did my application know that I
was logged in
right we could understand the
redirecting right like we might be able
to look at our code right we won't be
able to look at our code and be like all
right since they're logged in right we
know like the insure auth is a thing we
know that we can redirect based off if
somebody's locked in but how do we
actually know that the user was logged
in and yes chat it was session we have a
logged in session we have a session that
was created uh when this user originally
logged in or signed up now
the session is not magic it's actually
something called a cookie
and what we are doing is we are leaving
a cookie on our users computer that
matches the session stored in our
database and at first it seems pretty
complex but know that these two packages
are the ones that are handling the
cookie and sessions it's not something I
ever really have to think about it's a
few bits of code that we'll walk through
and then you'll see all right oh that's
how the cookies being applied this is
how the cookie matches what we have in
our database and once these are linked
the users can stay logged in so before
we dive into the code and before we dive
into the browser where I'm going to show
you these cookies I'm going to show you
how we're able to
have our users stay logged in we're
gonna take our top of the hour break so
if you're new around these parts where
they take a break at the top of every
hour please if you're able get up move
around hydrate stretch take care of
yourself look at something that's not
your screen for a few minutes and we
come back we're gonna dive deep into
these sessions dive deep into these
cookies see how they work and I'm gonna
run some ads that folks to join us don't
have to sit through them all right buddy
see you in let's put five minutes on the
timer
are you drinking mud the mushroom tea no
but they are all up in my ads they know
they they're like we're getting you Leon
I know that you're gonna they're gonna
get got
they're trying to get me
all right I'm into the clock see you on
five let's jump back into it so we're
gonna talk through
right
um we're gonna talk through the cookies
so what I want to do is I want to go
ahead and I want to open up my inspector
and one of the things I want to go to is
we have all these other things that are
in the inspector that we haven't really
used yet
um we're gonna use even even funkier
ones when we get to react but we have
this application section
and in this application section you can
see a lot of stuff we have like the
local storage
excuse me which we've seen in the past
right we say this local Source we've
seen in the past uh we have session
storage which unfortunately is not
actually session storage is like the
local storage that ends when you uh
close your browser or or go away for a
bit right
um it's the it's kind of like the local
storage that's not persistent
um and then down here we have cookies
and so these cookies you could think of
them as like a little text font I'm
going to simplify things here you can
definitely nerd out on this stuff right
um if you think of these as like little
text files that we're putting on our
client's computer that just has a tiny
bit of information
and what we're doing whenever we have an
open session right whenever we have an
open session is we're matching the text
that's on their machine that little text
file that we call a cookie we're
matching it with the session that we've
logged on our own back end
right and so if we look we have these
two lines of code that are going to help
us set up the session and then down here
we have set up our session saying
app.use the session we have a secret
which I'll talk about in a second and
some other stuff that are just saying
like like that helps us set up the
session and then the last little bit
here that's important is this
store uh we're actually going to store
our session info in our database
right so if we look at our mongodb we're
going to see
that we have users collection we have a
to-do's collection from our to-do app
and we have a sessions collection and in
this session we have all the sessions
that I have done whenever I've logged in
right whenever I've logged in we have
created a new document right a new
document in this sessions collection and
so uh right now you can see that
for some reason it thinks that that's
today's date
um I'm just gonna let that be for a
second uh we have the the the day that
we started it the time that we started
it and then kind of like what we're
storing but we'll notice that this has a
you like a an ID UB
s4li if we go back and we look on the
client side you can see that here
ubs4li we can see right we can see that
part of that cookie
matches the information that is stored
in our database now you don't actually
have to store the sessions if you don't
want to it's just an extra perk that
enables folks to like come back to your
application much later right to come to
your application much later and still
have like this information and still be
able to use those cookies
it's the expiration date sorry yeah
um
you'll be hey thank you for the gift of
Subs hope you're doing well thank you
for being here yeah uh we have the
expiration date going in here not the
start date sorry it says expires right
next to it rip right and so the idea
here is that we have a match in our
database and we have a match
stored on our users computer right and
the beautiful thing about this right the
beautiful thing about this is that now
as we move across our pages right as we
move across our Pages we can see that
the Cookie's still there like that file
is still there so even though I've gone
back to a different page when I go to
log in every single time I send a
request I can send that cookie along
with the request or the information
along with that request and I can check
right I can check that session and see
if it matches right and so the idea here
is that I can have these little cookies
that enable me to have open sessions and
I can move around my application and
even though we're going to different
pages as long as you stay logged in and
as long as you have that cookie I know
that you're still logged in that you're
still the same user that is still the
same session and I can let you move
across my entire application right now
the cool thing is if I like log out
and I clear my cookies I try to like log
back in you can see that now I'm trying
to create a I'm trying to log in but
it's a different cookie and since it
says it's a different cookie it knows
that I'm not logged in so I didn't get
redirected back to the to Do's right
that that that that session is different
that cookie is different so it's not the
same session right I'm no longer logging
as soon as I click log out it destroyed
that session right and when we went back
to the main page and tried to log in you
can see that we didn't get redirected
this time we got taken to the login page
right got taken to the login page
um so when I log back in so let's go
ahead and do something interesting
somebody asked a really interesting
question so let me go ahead and log in
Bob bob.com
let's go and do Bob Bob Bob
all right so I'm logged in we can say
acot GG if we look in our
Let me refresh
we look at our session
you can see that we have our cot GG as
the new session right now the cool thing
is
let me uh let me close my document here
let me go to localhost 2121 let me log
in
y'all see that
yeah
y'all see that all right even though we
like completely left the app we closed
we closed the page we still went back
right the reason this works like the
reason even though we were able to come
back is exactly the cookies are stored
locally on our machine and our sessions
are stored where
in the DB right we could we could create
our application without the store
all right we could create our
application without the store
however if somebody like closed the
browser or closed their window and came
back they would have to log back in
right we wouldn't have like that
persistent session so by storing our
sessions in the DB we have this other
ability that we just kind of take for
granted all the time that we know when
the users come back we can find the
session that they had previously because
they still have the same cookie and that
cookie still stored as part of the
session right so we have the ability
right we have the ability
to have
repeat users that have been logged in go
away come back and they're still logged
in
right
what is creating the cookies on the
client side so everything that has to do
with this
all the all the all the stuff that has
to do with the session and storing the
sessions comes from these two packages
and the little bit of uh a little bit of
code that we're writing here to tell it
to use those packages to handle the
session now
let's think about this for a second
we're creating these cookies
and we are creating these like unique
ways for each session to be unique right
like we need a unique cookie for each
user right and so
how can we create a unique cookie for
each user that would be hard to kind of
like reverse engineer right and to then
like figure out how to maybe trick the
system into thinking that you're already
the logged in user right there there
could be some things that we'd have to
think around that the secret makes that
a little bit harder the secret means
that it's not just like it's not a um
it's just not like a generic thing that
we're using it's uh yeah you can think
of I like that gentle giant you could
think of it as like math.random times
keyboard cat right like where we're kind
of like randomizing by using that secret
to make our stuff a little bit more
unique like to make our strengths a
little bit more unique and that kind of
does get into like the salting and
hashing that we'll talk about in a
second
um but it's just a way of kind of making
these these cookies that we're seeing
when we kind of look in the inspector a
little bit more unique
mm-hmm so that this is kind of being
randomized a little bit more
and so like I said you could nerd out
about this this whole pipeline you could
nerd out about like how the cookies are
generated and how they're stored on the
client machine how we're storing that
session in the DB but like
right now that's probably not the thing
we should nerd out over right
right
uh we we should probably say all right
I'm using this off the shelf right I'm
using this off the shelf it's going to
handle sessions for me if I was on the
job and this was a real application and
this was something that I really needed
to
[Music]
um
I really need it to like get right then
maybe spend a little bit more time on it
but for right now you're gonna use it
off the shelf yeah uh Rascal 2. hey
Rascal suit with the raid today
uh Express session creates the cookie
yup mongoddy store stores the
session objects in the database yep and
one coming back to the browser gives the
server the cookie store finds the
session for that cookie and gives it
back uh so yeah exactly so what's
happening here right is when we show up
when we show up and we go we're just
kind of like here like we're back on
localhost 2121 right
when we show up and we click this login
we have made a request to the server
right and that server what it's going to
do it's going to take that request and
part of that request is now our what
part of that request that's being sent
to the server is now our what
yeah it's that information that's coming
from the cookie right and what we're
going to do is since our session data is
stored in the database we're looking
through our database to see all right
does that match does that cookie match
any of the IDS that we have here if so
we can we can bring that session back to
the user we can send that back so the
client can skip the login and go right
back to their previous session and so
like I said
it's a lot we can nerd out over all the
little bits and Bobs but the only thing
you really need to know is that on the
client is start a cookie and right now
in our mongodb we're storing the
sessions with each request we're
checking for that cookie to see if
there's a user that should be logged in
that should be ready to rock and roll
and if we find that information then we
just log them right in they keep up that
session
all right
can the secret be anything yep you can
make up whatever you want there
I think keyboard cat is like the default
that a lot of like
um either the docs used or tutorial used
yeah
cool
all right so now we have sessions so our
users can stay logged in we're storing
those sessions in our database right
we're storing their sessions in our
database and
um
we now have the ability to have users
logged in right we can they can log in
they can stay logged in since we're
storing the sessions in our database
they can straight up close out our
application come back later and still
have all that information
uh should the secret be in our EnV file
uh actually yeah so when we get to our
our application our social network we're
actually going to do that our secret
will be in the EnV file uh is it super
is it super new to have that happen
right now no
um but yeah we'll actually put it in
there
yep all right you'll see that in our in
our social network code that will use it
as an environment variable
uh do these sessions eventually get
deleted yep they have an export you can
put in an expiration date
um
and you can even see that we kind of see
the expiration of this the session uh
here in the DB at the moment
and you can set any type of expiration
that you want
um there have been some apps that have
like used this like not maybe the best
way you should have done it but like
there are some apps that have like put
like really silly expirations on it so
you get kicked out every once in a while
or something like that like you can play
with it cool all right so
we have talked through sessions
right that keep our users logged in
uh the express flash this was something
very particular uh let's actually show
that so
let's go to our application here
I'm going to log out
Bank apps do that right exactly yeah
Bank apps will like kick you out they'll
close your session uh so that if you
like walk away from your computer
somebody else can't come up and like
have access to your banking information
so if you've ever been on your bank's
website and you've like not been on
there for a while and you get kicked out
that's the Bank closing your session
really great example thank you for that
raise
all right so let's go ahead and log in
right and we're going to put in Bob
at bob.com I'm going to put in the wrong
password
all right so this invalid email or
password that we have on the login that
like flash notification that's what
flash is helping us do right if we go to
our sign up
and we do something silly let's go ahead
and um so let's go ahead and do
um
rank
frank.com
uh and we do sorry that should be
frank.com over here
we do Frank
at Frank right and we just put in
password of Frank and we try to submit
we kind of get all these different don't
get me started I don't think you already
know who Frank is
I don't know if you're ready for that
yet
cool so if we look we got this please
enter a valid email address because I
didn't put a real email address uh we
have our password set to eight
characters long which obviously Frank
was not eight characters long and then I
didn't put in the actual confirmation so
it didn't match so the flash these
messages right here that's the flashes
uh coming for
so Frank all right so we the lore
continues so we have Bob
and we have Bob's evil twin
chat who's Bob's evil twin
John thank you
somebody said Victor I gotta ban them
real quick hold on sorry it's gonna time
them out for a few seconds
um John is Bob's evil twin right and
then
and then we had Sarah
Sarah is kind of the reason that Bob and
John don't get along
very interesting past Victor is the The
Suitor that came along and sweeps Sarah
away from both Bob and John so long
story there too and then Frank
Frank
is Bob's
dog
cool so Bob has a dog named Frank
and so uh uh Frank is Bob stock all
right so
[Laughter]
so Frank has an email by the way too uh
so anyway so we have Frank and so so it
gets deeper right you're like Leon why
why I introduce a dog well
let's just say
that Frank was the reason Victor met
Sarah
that's all we're gonna say
Frank was the reason Victor metzer so it
gets it gets a little tumultuous
all right
so uh all these kind of like messages
that are popping up uh that are flashing
up to let us know something went wrong
kind of like our validation that's what
uh flash is handling uh it just enables
us to kind of have these messages that
kind of pop up when we need them and so
there's like a package that helps that
you could do other things there are
other ways to do verification
um but this is a pretty standard kind of
nodie express way of doing something
like that and so I just used it because
it's gonna be in a lot of apps uh Morgan
is our logger or
very very simple kind of debugger and
what it's showing us
is our log here right it's keeping the
log so every single request that I'm
making you can see like when I make
these get requests when I log in when I
sign up like all of these events that
are happening uh that's Morgan so Morgan
just helps us log all the stuff that's
happening it's just a good logger so
it's very common to have Morgan running
on your application because you can see
all the requests that are coming through
and the cool thing is you don't actually
have to like code these right you don't
you don't have to like code
um
these individual requests like in our
previous applications I've coded those
console logs right like I console log
saying that there was a get request a
post request a delete request right and
so
um it was all console logs and wild I
don't you don't have to do that anymore
when we use Morgan
cool uh you can see that we're requiring
our database so we have this lovely
database.js file and in this database.js
file is US connecting to our mongodb
database with the newer updates to
mongodb uh we actually don't really need
a lot of this stuff anymore it's kind of
just baked in now so if somebody wants
to submit a pull request to update this
I improve it
um
so that's kind of the changes that are
there now and then we just have linking
to our routes which we've covered in the
past two classes right where where if a
if a route comes into one of the main
routes we're going to use this route
file and if any of the to do routes come
in like slash to Do's any of the
creating uh getting or deleting or
updating of the to-do's are all going to
use these routes
cool
then since we are using environment
variables throughout our application we
actually have to tell Express uh to use
the environment variables and we kind of
talked about this
um
I talked about this I think the very
first time we went through this but this
is something that like is not built into
node which is pretty silly at this point
that environment variables is still an
external package for something so
important uh it's kind of like the flock
like you can kind of see some of the
philosophies come through and how node
is organized and how it can lean on npm
and things like that for for a lot of
the key stuff and so we have these other
environments that are creeping up like
bun right and so one of the things that
bun came out with is like hey
environment variables are built right in
you don't need external packages to do
this stuff and so
um just know that if you're using good
old node here you have to like tell it
to not only use your environment
variables but where to go find the
environment variables and I like to put
my environment variables in my config
folder my config folder eventually uh
does not get pushed up to GitHub my
eventually my whole config folder
probably just goes in my I get ignore
um
for us a lot of the key stuff will go in
my git like anything that's eventually
going to make its way into the git
ignore can often find its way into my
config folder uh there's gonna be some
stuff I don't want in the git ignore but
a lot of times it's a lot of the thought
of the secrets and stuff like that'll
wind up in my config things are going to
help me set up or configure my
application that's where they're going
so we need our database to be configured
we need passport to actually do
authentication so a lot of stuff that's
going to help us configure application
that's what my config folder is for
since we're going to be using passport
for authentication we actually need to
tell our application to use passport the
server.js is still the place where we
set up our entire application right
uh why why am I not using bun uh because
it's not battle tested yet it's it's
still too new and no one's using it yet
and so one of the things that you have
to be really careful of doing I don't
think they're at version one yet
um and so
you often don't want to use the latest
and greatest uh until it's been used for
a little while uh because especially as
newer developers you're gonna run into
some weird edge cases and you want those
edge cases to have stack Overflow
articles right you want somebody else to
have run into the pain so that you're
not having to be the one that um
to be the one that has to figure out the
pain right and so a lot of times I I I I
I'd never for new folks tell new folks
to chase the latest and greatest because
you're going to run into some weird
stuff and you might not be equipped to
handle that weird stuff
um and so especially we also have like
like the naming of stuff and so
um you'll notice that people are saying
buns at one zero one eleven
right most of the time applications are
not ready for you to be used until
they're at one zero zero right that's
when they're saying like hey you can use
this in production but until they hit
that version one release it's not ready
for production at all so they're doing a
lot of really cool and creative stuff
but it's not something that's ready for
production it's something that you would
use in your actual applications yet play
with it figure out what it does right
now let's bring the cool thing about bun
right now is it's it's asking a lot of
really interesting questions about how
we can do things better faster what's
what should be what should be a like
first class stuff like what should be
built into
um
built into something like no that's been
around for forever and so I think right
now instead of actually trying to use it
you should be participating in those
conversations about what is it bringing
to the table what might be missing from
the environments that we're using and um
I think that's really that's really key
right now
cool uh we need to connect to our
database right now we can see connectdb
is holding our database file we know
that our database file exports well
let's let's do without even looking
if connect DB is holding what was
required from our database file in our
config folder what do you know about
connectdb just by looking at line 18
what do you know about connectdb
yeah you can tell that it's a function
right like
might be a method because it might be
tied to an object but it's a function
right we can see that it's using the
parentheses so that we know that it's
calling something it is a function
awesome uh then we have kind of our
normal run-of-the-mill stuff we're using
ejs for our views
I was running through the text with my
wolves all right
uh we have our public folder that we're
still using when we get to our social
our social networking app uh we're going
to need to put more stuff in our public
folder our apps are ugly we don't have
any CSS we don't have anything like that
so we're gonna need some more stuff
going into our public
um these next two lines enable us to
kind of look at the requests that are
coming through right enables us to look
at kind of like what body parts we used
to do if you've been around the block a
little bit it enables us to look at any
of the requests and pull the stuff we
need out of the request so we can pull
all the stuff that came from the forms
or things like that out of our requests
and then this is just us setting up
Morgan to run and log everything so with
line 24 Morgan now runs and all of your
requests get logged without having to
um
without having to
um to put console logs into or anything
like that sessions we kind of already
talked about this is just kind of
letting our app use the session you
don't really need to do anything other
than maybe change the secret if you
wanted to and then we have our
middleware uh which is set up to let us
know that we're using passport so when
we have these two lines we're letting it
know that password's gonna be handling
our authentication and that we're going
to be using sessions along with passport
as well and then
we have our lovely flash which is
setting up those flash alerts that we
saw from when things don't go wrong with
our login or sign up then we have our
route set up so that our app knows how
to handle the requests that are coming
in any of the requests on the root route
go to main routes any of the requests
that come in on to-do's go to the to-do
routes and then finally we kick off our
server uh and we have the process.env
port so that if we do
uh if we do push our code uh to
something like Roku or the new
Challengers that have approached uh we
don't have to worry about having a fixed
port
actually possible hey thank you for the
raid hope you're doing well
welcome everybody hope you had a good
stream
from Argentina hey let's go welcome
well hope you had a good stream thanks
for bringing the crew along hope you've
been well
good to see you in a minute
welcome everybody
come on in come on in get get comfy
we're working through a full stack
application that we've been building
it's a full stack to-do list with
authentication and all the goodies uh
We've we've worked through it
we built it and then folks over the past
week have been building projects with it
and so we're just kind of cleaning up
some of the Loose Ends some of the
things we didn't get a chance to cover
yet to make sure we're really good
before we build out a full stack uh
social networking site so we're going to
try and build an Instagram clone
together using all the stuff that we've
been learning so far
welcome
all right
see here all right so let's walk through
the server.js file uh any questions
while we're here about the server.js
stuff I know it's a little bit of extra
stuff that we hadn't covered yet so I
just want to make sure we went through
it
uh the Euro encoded so this stuff right
here is just so that we can take a peek
at the requests that are coming through
we can grab every single part of the
request that's being made to the server
right so we can
we can right
right we can make any type of requests
we can make a get request a post request
whatever we're making the requests right
this part of the code enables us to
actually look at different parts of the
requests that are coming through right
we can we can we can pull the stuff out
of the forms that were submitted
anything that was sent with that request
these two lines enable us to pull those
things out
cool
uh
uh in the server.js considered part of
the controller
so you can think of the server.js as
like setting up the entire application
uh it sets up everything that we are
going to need right so the server.js
tells us hey we're going to be using all
these packages it sets up our
environment variables it sets up our
passport connects us to our database
sets up our view engine it sets up all
the things that we're going to need and
then Express is doing a lot of the
heavier lifting right Express is using a
lot more of the heavy lifting that
enables us to then build out stuff like
our controllers our models and it kind
of is the glue that brings it all
together
oh
what is the thing we don't need anymore
uh so or sorry Mongoose kind of
updated and a lot of these kind of these
like these these like new URL parser
unified topology a lot of this stuff's
kind of like you don't really need it
anymore because it's kind of just baked
in now
um before as Mongoose so like the thing
you have to realize that a lot of this
has been around for a while and all of
these different packages they go through
Cycles where they try to improve or
bring new stuff to the table and a lot
of the stuff that they first introduced
is experimental right where you can use
it if you want right right you can use
it if you want
but some things might I don't know not
work that well so you can turn on these
flags so that the experimental stuff you
get and then once that's been proven for
a while it's been it's been a a year or
two that everything's been working they
roll that in to an updated version of of
the code right so one of the things that
that I had to do today
was I didn't realize in our
in our
social networking code there is
something there's a package I was using
called multer and
you can see that I pushed the change
here today there was there was there is
a downstream
so when I sit Downstream it's like you
can think of all these packages as
depending on other stuff right
click hey thank you for the posture
check let me get posture check
here we go nice so you can think of all
the packages that we're using as
dependent on other stuff and so one of
the packages I was using for our image
uploading called multer they were using
a package Downstream like their
application was built on other packages
called dicer
and dicer has a
bug right now that's a security
vulnerability
and it's like actually a pretty serious
one and they haven't fixed it yet so
molter that was requiring that package
was like wait a minute we can't we can't
use this because that Downstream thing
has some problems and so molter went
from one four four
two one four five
and in that five they introduced a fixed
that
circumvented the issue that was
happening right
uh circumvented the issue that was
happening right and so that fix got rid
of that Downstream dependency and I had
to update the code to go from 144 to 145
so that we wouldn't the code wouldn't
break right so that's kind of something
that can happen where these updates have
to happen every once in a while
um because things break or things break
Downstream and all these things build up
on top of each other so these packages
are typically always kind of evolving
and fixing and growing and sometimes
these fixes are so great that instead of
having like a minor update or uh an
update to like say 5.0 eventually they
get to the point where they have a full
update that's like it might as well be a
whole new set of software and so you'll
notice that we have minor we have
patches right
so this one for
do one four five was a patch right like
they patched something it was a quick
fix and then eventually they'll have
like a minor update that includes all
the fixes that'll be like one five zero
and then eventually you have so many
minor fixes that you might as well make
it a new version and then that be
version
2.00
how do you keep up with all the packages
there's actually an mpm command
um that will tell you
um that'll tell you what needs to be
updated if you want and when you do
that's a good idea clutch when you do go
ahead and do mpm install something that
you all are probably going to see quite
a bit is it'll tell you that there's
broken stuff
and you can do npm audit and then npm
audit will look at all that broken stuff
and try and update it and fix it for you
A lot of times you have to do npm audit
hyphen hyphen Force which means hey I
don't care if this breaks something just
update the stuff for me right and so a
lot of times you'll do npm audit fix
force and that will update all the
packages for you and sometimes something
sometimes things just don't work after
right and so that's something you have
to worry about
uh there's actually a command that you
can run in npm that will
um that will show you like what version
everything is at I know I just did it so
I just did it recently I think I did it
with this code base
no this is a different it was a
different folder a different file
actually it might be in this one let me
see
blanking on the command for some reason
outdated there you go npm outdated uh so
you can do npm outdated I'm kind of
embarrassed to run that on the code base
that we have over here let's try it
though
uh oh
there you go so when you do npm outdated
uh
it'll show you uh kind of what like
where you're currently at and uh what
the latest is
so rip
rip
these ones are kind of okay
yeah
and so that's something you can do and
then npm update will help you fix a lot
of this stuff
uh but it's just not important and
for for like your your like learning
projects but if you're gonna build
something from scratch maybe 300 project
maybe update everything
and sometimes there are things that are
great that'll break and then you have to
like figure out
um how to fix them like the
the update to 145 is not straightforward
for malter
um I like when I when I try to do the
npm audit fix it wasn't actually
updating 2145 so what I did is I
actually
I went to actually show you what I did
um I went to multer on GitHub
I went to molter on GitHub
and I was having this error updating
wasn't actually working right like
updating updating the motor package
wasn't working so since moulter wasn't
working and npm audit fix Force wasn't
working I was like all right there has
to be something wrong here with malter
um because even the update's not working
so I went to their issues
and security vulnerability due to dicer
that was the error I was getting so I
went to
um like the issue and I read through
what people are talking about and
somebody at the end uh says that the
changes have been pushed as one four
five uh and so what I did is I just like
there's better ways to do this but just
because I was trying to be quick and I
was trying to do it before class started
I just went to my package.json
and I know this is a lot I'm just
showing it because it's something I did
recently I went to my package.json and
uh it's not sorry it's the wrong I went
to my package.json
and in my package.json
I just uh ripped out molter this one eat
I eated it and I did npm install multi
save and it just it downloaded the
newest version of molter it saved it and
that's it so like I just I just
literally
deleted this line did npm did the npm
install uh malter or npm npm install
motor save and
um yeah what that'll do is it'll
download the latest version for you and
save it in your package.json and that's
it yeah and so you can see that this is
kind of like a weird version like it
updated it's like the LTS right now and
then that fixed all the issues so a lot
of what I had to do was like all right I
have this weird bug right I have this
weird bug uh even like my npm update
audit fix Force isn't working and so I
went to the actual packages space on
GitHub like their actual repo on GitHub
I read through the issue that I was
having it's like oh it's been fixed or
been updated in this newer version all I
have to do is
um update to this latest version
that's it
all right so that's a little bit of uh a
little bit of a wander away from what we
were talking about but I wanted to show
it because it's something that is going
to come up uh next week or sorry on
Thursday all right uh so that was the
server.js we kind of talked through that
one of the things that folks had some
trouble with that I just want to talk
through uh was the user model
and this user model is a user model that
I got from just passport
right
[Music]
um
like I said that wasn't like the best
way to do it
I was just trying to be quick yeah
yeah it does leave two in the package
lock
um but I wasn't sure if I was gonna roll
back to it or not or anything weird like
that so I prefer actually to have both I
know it's weird it's not probably best
practice but that's it that's what I did
am I proud of it no
all right uh so the other thing I feel
kind of had some trouble with that I
just wanted to talk through is the user
model and this user model is not
something that
um like once again you would ever have
like committed to to memory uh what it
enables you to do is to create a user in
this case
um my user schema for creating a new
user has a username email and password
so that is the result of a new user will
be a document right right will be a
document that has a username an email
and a password right so that's the
schema here remember schemas for
Mongoose are just Constructor functions
right think about a Constructor that
spit out an object right we've all built
Constructors don't let schemas get in
your head or make you feel like
um
or feel like it's uh something that you
haven't seen before it's just a
Constructor function and that
Constructor function is going to spit
out an object right and that object is
going to have a username email and
password property right and then where
do these objects that get spit out of
the schema or mongoose uh go where do
they wind up
the database exactly wind up in our
database the very last thing that we
have here is we export the model user uh
and we export the user schema if we look
user schema here is the thing we're
exporting so this new schema is the
thing that we're exporting and we gave
it the name of user so
if we look at our mongodb
um we're eventually going to be able to
have
in our database here
these objects that have the username the
email and the password
username email and password right coming
from our user schema now the thing that
we are storing in here is a password
could we have just whatever password
they typed in Bob Bob could we have
stored that in the database absolutely
you could have absolutely just stored
Bob Bob Bob into the database and and
that would have been there in plain text
but we don't want to store passwords in
plain text if someone ever got access to
our database they would then have access
to all of the passwords and that
wouldn't be good right that wouldn't be
good because if somebody would just take
that password and try logging into
everybody all their other accounts they
would use their email that they have
here and they would try logging it to
their Gmail they would try logging into
their bank they would try logging into
all these different things that would
have that same password so every once in
a while
a company gets hacked and you find out
that they were storing your passwords in
plain text and you get so mad because
you know that it's what
line 13 through
33. so 20 lines of code
20 lines of code would have stopped them
from having plain text passwords right
literally less than 20 lines of code
because we got like comments and stuff
so under 20 lines of code uh to not
store passwords in plain text and so how
do we store passwords not in plain text
well we we encrypt the password
and so you could think of the way that
we're doing this we're going to hear it
called uh hashing you'll hear it called
salting you'll hear different variations
on these different words but all we're
doing is we're trying to take something
like Bob
and turn it into something that does not
represent
Bob right so we have the word Bob but in
our database it's going to wind up being
bullying to V
right there we're taking our plain text
right and we're turning it into
something else
and we are using a b Crypt which is the
package that enables us to take this
word and turn it into a hashed version
of that word now theoretically
you could reverse it right you could
reverse it if you knew exactly how this
was happening if you knew exactly kind
of the
the
the generator that was using it you
could Bruce force it you could do all
these different things to kind of like
try and reverse engineer it
um but it would just probably take a
really really long time like if you had
a super computer and it was just running
for years maybe you could figure it out
but all bcrypt is doing is taking our
passwords and turning it into something
else that's not that and then when we
need to use the password we can take
that really weird encrypted string and
get the password back right and so you
you you can't like you can't reverse a
hash true yeah right so the idea here is
that we are
we are turning into something else right
that's not going to be used as plain
text into our database that's all we're
doing here now are we doing it are we
doing any of this heavy lifting no
right right
we're not doing any of this heavy
lifting we're just using bcrypt to do it
for us
right that's the idea and so we use this
so that we don't wind up storing those
plain text passwords uh into our
database can we do it more than password
you could you could but bcrypt is
handling all of that for us so that's it
if you want to you could go super deep
into how bcrpt works you can go super
deep into how hashing works and all that
fun stuff but like I said we're just
using off the shelf we don't have to go
deep into it if you want to knock
yourself out but for when you are using
local authentication boom just use
vcrypt you're using passport it just
works
cool
yeah pjz said it correctly here hashes
cannot be reversed password comparison
works by hashing the attempt and
comparing it with the stored hash
right so what's going to wind up
happening is let's say you put in your
password
right let's say you put in your password
we put in Bob
right we put in Bob Bob gets hashed to
dollar sign to V right Bob gets hashed
into two dollar sign 2v the next time we
log in and the user types in
I don't know
they type in John instead well that hash
is going to be different that hash might
be like Bang
three x right so then we would look in
our database and be like all right wait
a minute we were expecting this
but we got this
right we got this so that that password
is not correct
if they were to instead turn it type in
Bob that would get hashed to
pulling to V which we would see in our
database we go oh this bling 2v right
matches the bling 2v that we have stored
in our database so it has to be the
correct password
that's it
right that's it
cool
alrighty let's take a break here
we're going to go ahead and take a break
uh we're at the top of the hour if
you're new around here let's go ahead
and I feel so stupid
let's go ahead and take our break here
uh if you're new around these parts
please get up move around hydrate and we
will be back in five minutes ready so
let's let's talk through the two things
that we just covered uh to make sure
that we're all on the same page boom
all right
let's go to a sign up
uh let's actually sign up Frank let me
run my server here
all right
uh it's hard to get help with the CSS
and the homework help area uh don't
don't use homework help
use HTML and CSS help if you know you
need CSS help you know
and also use the search if you're if
you're doing homework I'm guaranteeing
people have already like most of the
questions have already been answered so
always make sure you're doing search
because a lot of times a lot of those
those questions have been answered
yeah especially especially specifically
with the homeworks yeah so make sure
you're using the right Channel and then
make sure that you're definitely using
search
a lot of times somebody's answered
answered the question like 10 times
they're probably not going to answer it
again right
yeah
cool and then also don't be afraid to
ask your question like if you ask it in
the morning and nobody's answered it
then go ahead and ask again in the
evening because different folks are up
at different times and they're willing
to help at different points in time so
make sure they see it
cool
yeah and then also yeah and also change
how you ask sometimes too A lot of times
um
a lot of times it's hard to understand
certain people's questions and so taking
a second to to rephrase things can
actually be really helpful a lot of
times when the questions don't get
answered it's because the question
itself was really
um
it's really gets is asked in an odd way
and it's really hard for folks to to
answer it or you'd include your code
things like that but yeah most most
folks are scrolling through those
channels every day to answer questions
um so yeah definitely don't be
definitely definitely be afraid to ask
again
um but I would say the bulk if not all
the questions get answered so just make
sure you're rephrasing it yeah
all right so
let's sign up
and we're going to create uh Frank's
account for real this time frank.com
but oh sorry let's keep doing the first
emails to email so do Frank we do Frank
at Frank
.com password will be Frank Frank
and I'm going to submit all right as
soon as I click submit
uh what are some things that have
happened when I click submit
uh what are some things that had to
happen as I clicked submit let's talk
big level here
based on the two things we just talked
about kind of what's Happening
all right a request was made nice
specifically a post request was made uh
that post request right
Was Heard and a user was created and
what helped us create the the user
what how what did we use to create the
user
the user model right which had a schema
that helped us build out that user nice
and
when we created that user uh we didn't
store their password in plain text what
did we do
yeah we hashed the password and when we
hashed the password uh what did we use
to help us hash the password
decrypt beautiful thank you so uh be
Crypt we put we typed in I typed in
Frank Frank
Frank Frank was the password I entered
in and let's see what B gave us uh
for that password let's take a look
there we go so we typed in Frank Frank
and our hash because they're hashing
why she's trying to get in here uh
b-crypt hashed it to be this long Ash
string
right and uh the beautiful thing is we
can't
go backwards even if we have this hashed
this hash string we can't use that
oh
I wish I could show you this is the
cutest thing ever
so in the new room
I have
right in this new room I have the door
and then to get further in the roommate
to go down a hallway at the end of the
hallway is a huge
like it's just a huge
blanket basically and the blanket helps
muffle some of the sounds that are
coming into the room so not only did did
Moshi open the door to get into the
hallway they came all the way pushed
past this huge ass like sound dampening
blanket and into the room
I'll just like
I just thought that was quite amusing
uh all right so they typed in Frank
Frank Frank Frank uh B turned it
into this long string
right now
right now there is no like
mathematical proof that would show that
we can go from a hash back to what the
original the original value was right so
the way that this will work going
forward is whenever someone types in
Frank Frank as the password what will
bcrypt always turn that into no matter
what the user is or what they or like
when they do it what will bcrypt always
turn Frank Frank into
yeah this hash string so when the user
logs in and they type in Frank Frank
what we're going to do is turn Frank
Frank into its hash and then we're going
to check to see if the hash in our
database matches the hash that would
have came from Frank Frank if the hashes
match what do we know the user typed in
the correct what
I typed in the right password
all right they typed in the right
password so
um
it can get a little more complicated
than that you can do a little bit extra
things here but that's kind of the gist
of it cool so now we have the ability to
create users we have the ability to
create passwords uh we have our server
set up I think those are kind of like
the big things that we hadn't really
talked about uh so far in this
application we talked through our major
controllers we talk through some of our
middleware we looked at our models uh
yeah so I feel pretty good about where
we're at with this one you saw us build
out the app you saw that you built it
out with your group to add more stuff to
it and we're going to keep building on
top of it right
uh The Flash oh yeah use the flash so
inside of our
if we go ahead and we so we're going to
look at a few different places here but
if we look inside of
all right
[Music]
there we go sorry our auth controller
here
right when we look inside of our auth
controller which is helping us with kind
of creating our different users right
it's the thing that's actually using the
user model we're going to have this
wonderful little bit of code in here
that's going to be doing the validation
and so we have like our validator and
the validator is going to have all these
little things that were that were
checking right so
um we're gonna see like is there like an
email
um if there isn't a like actual email
you can see that we're gonna push enter
a valid email address into our errors uh
we don't put in a password in you'll see
password cannot be blank
um so in here you can see a couple
different things that eventually could
be used as flash messages and so we're
going to use these kind of messages all
throughout our application and so you're
going to see them pop up whenever you
have like a message that we're using
right we can use those as like our flash
messages and so we have them pop up a
few places in our application but that's
kind of the idea
um as folks are are logging in
um as folks are signing up there might
be some errors that we need to show and
those errors will eventually be handled
by The Flash
can we style The Flash messages yes you
can
how do they show so let's take a look at
our views let's look at the login and
sign up pages and so if we look at our
login and our sign up Pages you can see
that we have as part of our ejs a place
for those messages to show up
right so as those messages are happening
and you're like refreshing the page with
those requests right like when you
submit the form you send a request part
of the ejs that spits out the HTML that
comes back to you now has those messages
that were passed into this conditional
here so when you
didn't put in a long enough password or
you didn't put in a correct email or you
didn't put in any of these little things
that um
that that
are like the errors in our application
right the right now theirs are getting
passed into the div right
right passed into the div and that's
where these messages will show up now
you're also seeing here that I have
alert and alert danger anybody would
know where those came from
yeah those are bootstrap classes so
on Thursday we'll use bootstrap and some
of the projects that we'll work on
probably later on we'll have Tailwind
but they're just different ways of kind
of adding some default style so a lot of
apps right I do the same stuff over and
over again and so you can use things
like bootstrap or Tailwind to like make
styling very very easy and quick and so
this alert and alert danger is actually
me using bootstrap and so if I wanted to
and I loaded bootstrap which you'll see
on Thursday
um
I now have like these would show up as
like red whenever something happened
like you would get like that it would be
like like a like a Red Box showing you
the error
yeah
learn bootstrap for the group project
that's awesome
yeah it's an easy way to kind of style
out your application
cool
beautiful all right so we kind of walked
through we've seen this application what
I want to do with the rest of our time
tonight is start to think through our
social media application right the think
through our social media application are
our social networking the 100 Dev social
network will think up uh we'll think up
some
some a better name I saw some good ones
today uh for now it's quick pound last
cohort named a binary upload boom we'll
do a poll on Thursday to name it but we
want to build a social network and a
social network that has a lot of the
core features of something like
Instagram
are you going to teach us a framework
like next.js no because that's something
you might learn on the job however
if you contribute to a lot of the 100
Dev stuff a lot of the 100 death stuff
that I've been working on uses next.js
so if you wanted to like help our like
landing pages and stuff like that you
would pick some of that stuff up cool
alrighty
so
let's think through some stuff that we
would need if we were going to build a
basic social networking application
where we can say like upload photos and
have just some normal social media S
type
things what are some features that we're
going to need for this application let's
talk like features first and then we'll
kind of break down like the data that
we're going to need and like the things
we might store in our database and all
that fun stuff so we're going to need an
account yeah I agree we need some sort
of like some sort of authentication
which is wonderful what we've been just
learning what else are we going to need
um profile pages I like that
what else
uh a feed okay I like a feed
um
the ability to post okay
let me look post
like buttons okay like buttons
comments comments could be good
friends oh friends would be a cool
feature maybe that's
let's we can think about friends or
DMS things like that DMS okay
so we have a lot of different things
that we could do uh Delete like the
ability to like to delete a post
okay
um
no dislikes no dislikes reporting that
could be good
no updating posts we're gonna go full
Twitter on this one
um
cool all right let's think about like
what some of the core stuff would be so
authentication we're going to need
individual user profiles makes a lot of
sense like a feed where we can see all
the posts make sense
our post we should probably be able to
delete our post like our post not
everyone's post but like we'd be able to
probably delete our post we should
probably be able to like posts right
maybe we should be able to leave
comments on posts and maybe we'll save
friends and DMS for maybe something that
you would add on top of it I think the
way we build this out we probably
wouldn't
um
would it be too hard to add
um but I think we start here we're in a
good spot so I'm gonna add these things
uh here to the top just so we have like
a nice little list
where did my
like a little normally there's like a
little widget that tells me that I can
like do other stuff
where'd that go one second
here we go
all right so I'm just going to add some
text here just so we have it at the top
we're going to have off
profiles
feed
posts and our posts we should be able to
delete them
we should be able to like them
uh and then comments let's do comments
as well and I think we'll start here and
we can add all the stuff that we need
probably after that
cool
alrighty
so
if we're going to have
Authentication
we probably need what
if we're going to have authentication we
probably need what
we need to use passport and password is
going to help us create what
password is going to help us create what
yeah users so I think one of the first
bits of data that we're gonna need to
keep track of are our users so I'm gonna
make a collection for our users and I'm
going to put that over here so probably
the first collection that I'm going to
keep track of will be our users
collection
and let's just go ahead and put some
text here I'm just going to say our
users
beautiful and our users will be made up
of a bunch of documents that come from
our where were our documents get their
structure
from the model
that has our schema and our scheme is
going to enable us to create a bunch of
different users
and our different users will all have
a few key things what are our users
going to have
to have a username cool
they're going to have
email
cool
password
and what else do we know
what do we know about any document that
we create in mongodb it's all going to
have what
an ID nice they're all going to have an
ID you're going to make this a little
bit smaller just that we can actually
write some stuff next to it
cool so let's say
let's say our first user
will have the ID I'm just going to make
it easy for us to keep track of the IDS
have the idea of 100
they have the username of Bob
and they have the email of
b.com and then they have the password
which is our lovely hash password of
some some random
right just some random password right
that was hash cool
so we're gonna have a bunch of these
different users so let's see if I can
just make a quick Copy of both of these
so each user that signs up
we're gonna have a different document
for each of those users
all right
a different document for each of those
users
and each user is going to be slightly
different right like the IDS will be
different uh 101 for John
and it'll just be J j.com and this is
something I do for kind of like any app
that I'm going to build out right
where I'm going to kind of just plan out
my data and my different views so if I
can plan out my data and My Views I have
a pretty good handle on what my
application is going to look like
cool
um we're gonna have Sarah here as well
we'll just do Sarah
oh
nice and then we'll also have screw
Victor we'll just go straight to Frank
I'm just gonna do f atf.com
cool all right so
brings there into this
is this an example of whiteboarding yeah
I'm kind of like whiteboarding through
my application I'm gonna keep track of
like the major data I need to keep track
of and the the major views and then from
that I can figure out kind of a lot of
stuff
all right so we know that each time
somebody logs in or sorry every time
somebody signs up we wind up creating a
user
but if we were to Think Through like
profiles a feed posts
where should we start
um
let's start with a post we should have
an individual
right we should have an individual
post okay so let's think about an
individual posts I'm just going to do a
view here for a post
so it's gonna this will be like our our
post View
I'm just going to put post view here at
the top
cool
what do we need for our post like what
should the user
what should our user
sorry what should our post actually
contain
like what should what should an
individual post on our social network
contain
text in an image I actually like that so
maybe we have uh maybe we have an image
right so let's let's say we have an
image
all right boom we have our image that
shows up
right that'll be our image
cool and then maybe we have like a
caption
so the caption can be whatever
right so we have like our caption
all right
and then
maybe we have I'm seeing some folks
saying likes yeah maybe we have like the
number of likes
so maybe we have likes
and like a number so we'll just say like
I mean if it's me it's just like
thousands right but if it's like
everybody else maybe like one or two
like what do people get in these days
like three I don't know cool so we'll
say like likes
we'll have like a caption
we'll have the number of likes
um
and then
what else what else does a post actually
need
if we're trying to like
a date like a time stamp let's keep it
simple let's keep it simple I think a
date could work a timestamp could work
uh maybe a delete button maybe if it's
our post there should be a delete button
right like if if it's our posts maybe
there's like a there's a trash can
and that there'll be some sort of logic
to figure out like that would wind up
being like a trash can
or delete
cool I think that's where we could start
eventually we would want to have like
comments but I think there's gonna be
some I think for now I'm going to think
of that as as separate data for now so
to make a post a post gonna have these
different things so what do we know that
we're going to need in our in our
database if this is what posts have like
what are we gonna We have a user's
collection what else are we going to
need
yeah like a post collection
um oh the user like oh we didn't put
that on here maybe like we have like the
username too
I mean we have like the person actually
made the post that's probably pretty
helpful cool
um so we'll have the username we'll have
likes we'll have a caption and we'll
have a delete button beautiful all right
so let's go ahead and build out our
users collection sorry our post
collection now that we kind of have
fleshed out what our posts might look
like and the things we might want to
keep track of we'll save comments we
might come back to that but I think this
is like we're thinking we're talking
like MVP right our minimal viable
product right like the simplest thing
that we could
um that we could that we could build out
so we're going to just keep it simple
keep it keep it keep it clean MVP uh
posts we're gonna need some posts so
let's go ahead and build out our post
collection
oh I don't want that
I want a different shape my friend here
we go all right a different shape here
all right here we go
all right so we're gonna have our posts
collection
and inside of our post collection we're
gonna have a document for each of our
posts so our we're going to wind up
having
we have a post collection that means we
also have a what
yeah post model and that post model will
have a schema and the schema will
dictate uh the structure of each of our
documents so the structure of each of
our documents let's figure out what
we're going to have in each of them
uh so each of our documents in our post
collection will have to have
off the rip
an ID
too big
too small there we go has to have an ID
and that ID will be created at random
for every single post that's made and so
we can just go ahead and
give that an ID let's just say it's it's
five
hundred right just a random ID we'll
start it up 500. what else should each
post have
ah okay
folks throwing it in chat already
um so we're gonna have
the
let's say
we know there's stuff already here so
we're gonna have to have the image which
will be a URL
of the image
which we'll talk through in a second uh
we're gonna have to have the number of
likes which will be a number in this
case it's three
uh we're gonna have a caption
which will be a string and let's let's
actually let's say I'm putting real data
in here but in like our schema we would
have like a value so we're just going to
say
um a string for now but like if we were
thinking our schema we say like string
Boolean number things like that
um so we have an ID we have an image URL
we have the number of likes we're gonna
have a caption which is a string
um let's think through some other stuff
oh let's have a create it
bye I saw that in chat I created by
right
and let's think about this
if we have a post
how do we know who made the post
like how am I going to tie my individual
posts to a specific user
yeah the ID so if Bob made this post
I'm going to put a created by 100.
I'll do a create it by 100. if we look
Bob had the idea of 100 so I'm gonna
have a created by property that matches
Bob's ID
why wouldn't I use Bob's username
maybe there's more than one person that
names themself Bob what if Bob renamed
like what if Bob like renamed their like
what if they change their username
right
that's pretty common on apps that that
people can rename their usernames and so
we would still want to have all these
posts tied to Bob even if they change
their username so instead of having to
like go through and edit every single
post right so I'm going to go through
and edit every single post to have the
updated username right we can just
always use the ID so even if Bob was to
change his name it'd always have the
same created by and so maybe maybe Bob's
made a few posts so let's go ahead and
copy this
and this actually maybe it's a little
bit smaller
all right maybe Bob's made a few posts
already so balance made a few posts
let's go and copy this
boom
right and so this other post would have
a unique ID uh maybe has a different
number of likes different string and
it's still created by Bob right it's
still created by Bob right so we still
have the ID of 100.
now
do we think
do we think these apps are actually
deleting anything
we said we have to have this delete
button are they deleting anything oh I
don't think so let's go ahead and say
delete it
and for right now we'll just say that
both of these are false
right but eventually what we could do is
we could change the deleted property to
true
and uh just not show it if it's true so
when our users when our users
click the delete button we're not
actually going to delete it
we're just gonna change the deleted
property to true so we still have all
the data on our back end uh but it's we
just won't show it to them when it's
when it switches
and if there's going to be a squeaky
clean site
that sucked exactly
foreign
all right cool so Bob's been creating
some posts we now know that whenever we
create a post the ID is going to match
the create it by
right the ID is going to match the
created by so if I ever want it to build
out something like
um
a post page right if I ever wanted to
build out a post page uh I could say
that let's say this is the URL I could
have something like my let's say we're
on localhost
uh 2121
right slash post how could I have a
unique URL just for this post like what
would be my unique URL just for an
individual post
yeah we could just grab the ID so this
could be like slash
this could be slash 500 right this could
be slash 500 and the cool thing about
this being slash 500 is that eventually
in my API I could yoink the 500 and then
know which posts to go find to render
this View
right so we can just use these IDs to
know which posts we're rendering so if
if the uh if the page was instead
501 that would grab this post instead so
now we can have unique URLs for each of
our posts and when we go and render
these posts we can grab the image we can
grab the number of legs we can grab the
caption we can grab the person that
created it but for that to work if we if
we just have the created by what are we
also going to have to do
yeah we're gonna have to figure out
which user has the ID of 100 so we would
require we would we would make a request
to our post collection to get all the
information about the post but then we
wind up making another request to our
users collection to find out who has the
ID of a hundred so we could plop in Bob
here
right
and this is like a very very kind of
we're we're taking our time here we're
easing into the idea of how we might
build out a um
a full stack application here would be
doing all this to production probably
not but this is a good way to get an MVP
going is to think about how all this
data is interconnected and how we might
build out our app going forward so uh
the cool thing here is that we have
the ability to have unique posts that
now all have unique users let's build
one more post that has a different user
so let's say let's say Frank made a post
uh let's say Frank made a post
right Frank made a post it went really
viral so it has like uh like a thousand
likes uh what would the created buy be
here for Frank's post
B103 exactly because Frank has the ID of
103. so whenever we make a post we can
store that ID so we know who made this
post all right we wanted to make a feed
page
um so let's let's make a view for our
feed page I think that's an easy next
steps since we already have kind of like
this stuff going
we went to make a feed page
that has a bunch of different posts on
it right maybe maybe we're just
scrolling here
all right we're just scrolling
right we have a bunch of different posts
that are on our feed
right there we go how would the feed
page work if we were like say we were at
a URL like let me just copy this one
here
let's say our localhost 2121 slash
speed how would that work
like we just we just want to show all
the posts what could we do
yeah
we could just make a request right
to find all of our posts we could grab
them all right and then we just passed
all these posts to our ejs and our feed
is just every single post that's in our
collection
eventually we might want to only grab a
few at a time right maybe we'll grab the
most recent 500 or the most recent three
that are in our database right
so we don't have to grab all of them but
we can just go and grab the post that we
care about right from our post
collection to build out our feed so our
feed is pretty pretty simple if it's
like a let's think of it as like a like
a like a for you page on Tick Tock right
like it it doesn't matter if they're our
friend or not right it's just anything
that's ever been posted right
all right
cool yeah we can Implement friends later
on for now let's keep it simple so for
now our feed is just going to be all the
posts
um maybe we'll only grab a few at a time
just so that it's not completely
Reckless but eventually we can get in
other things like lazy loading and all
that fun stuff Progressive rendering all
that fun stuff um but for now we're
going to grab them all because we're
building an MVP right building MVP we're
going to grab the most recent five and
that'll be our feed all right
uh oh yeah all the posts that that don't
have a deleted property of true they've
had a deleted property of true it
wouldn't show up in the feed or or an
individual post that's a good good call
all right so we have our feed we have
our post I think like an extension of
the feed might be our
so we have profiles so we we have feed
we have post I think the other big one
is our profile so let's let's give this
a little bit more room
hmm
let's do our profile here
oh no
there we go let's do our profile here
um what does our profile need
username maybe like a pick for their bio
yeah bio
do we have bios
or pictures yet for our users if we're
gonna have if we're gonna have like user
like we're gonna have like bios and
profile pictures what do we have to
change
what would have to update for us to have
like profile photos and yeah our users
model right we need a new user schema
that would include profile photos that
would include uh that would include
bios very easy not hard to do right we
just we go to our user model and we make
space for the photo we make space for
the
um
for the bio right totally totally
something we could do but let's keep it
simple for now uh I think our my profile
what I really want is like an individual
profile for each user
and so I'm going to do just like what
our what our what our URL might look
like localhost 2121 slash profile
and what would be a what would be a
possible URL for one of our profiles
like what would Bob's profile be
what do you think what do you think
Bob's profile URL would be
yeah 100.
100 right
because what we're going to do is we're
going to say all right if somebody goes
to localhost 2121 profile slash 100
right that means they want all the stuff
relating to Bob
right so maybe at the very top we have
our username
right and then what do we want probably
on that profile
yeah all all of all of Bob's posts so
probably on this profile
we're gonna have a few posts here
all right let's let's copy this
all right
and maybe for now it's not like the full
post but maybe it's just the image maybe
it's just like the image of each post
and Bob right now
Bob really only has how many posts right
now
Bob only has two posts right now so we'd
only wind up having two posts on our
profile at the moment but we can imagine
there'd be like posts going down the
page but Bob only has two posts we can
see Bob's ideas 100 and this has a
creative buy of 100 and a created by a
100 so both of these were created by Bob
all right cool so when we're loading
Bob's profile page we're able to grab
based off of the ID that we're using
all of the posts
that have that idea of 100 we're able to
grab those the plug into our ejs
right
cool so we're able to say all right we
want the profile of this user we're then
going to use this ID they go find all of
their posts and plug that into the ejs
we've also made a request the users
collection to get that ID's username as
well
cool
so when we loaded the profile
we actually went and got data from to
what
when we loaded the profile we actually
went and got data from to what thrown in
chat
we went and got data from two
collections we went to the users
collection
to find the username and we went to the
post collection to find uh Bob's posts
cool
and there's probably one other thing
that we let's put let's put one other
thing on the profile page
um let's put a form
right let's put a form
uh for Bob to make new posts
right and so
this form
would probably only show up when
we probably have this in some sort of
conditional and this form would only
show up when
yeah if Bob is the logged in user right
if the person that is currently logged
in is Bob then we know that they're on
their profile page and if they're on
their profile page right
if you are on their profile page uh then
we can show the form and the form would
be everything that we need to make a
post
so we would have like a form
and that form
let's just say this is the form
the form would ask for a couple of the
key things there the form would ask for
we already kind of know what the form
would ask for
we already know what the posts they're
going to need uh it's going to need a
caption
it's going to need
a
image
so we're going to say a file upload
cool star form is pretty pretty tight at
the moment uh we just kind of need those
two key bits of information
all right we need a caption and we need
a file upload
because
the ID will be randomly generated
the number of likes that that'll that'll
go up right that'll go up as we actually
like stuff and we do all that caption is
what we need when they actually create
it all this other stuff is just filled
in
um when they submit right so when we
submit this form right when we submit
this form
we are going to make a post request that
post request is going to be heard by our
server and that post request will go
ahead and make the post and that post
will wind up having a unique ID it'll
have the image that we uploaded here
it'll start off with the likes of zero
but eventually if people like stuff in
our application that number can go up
it'll have the caption that we just
entered it'll have whoever was logged in
when they made it so in this case Bob
with the ID of 100 and then it'll have
if it was deleted or not but when it's
first created it'll just be false
right
yeah
cool so the file uploading is the tricky
bit here and so are we going to write
custom code
right
are we going to write custom code to
to to to upload our files no way not me
I'm not maybe you I'm not uh so we're
going to use packages that do that for
us so we're going to use a package
called multer that's going to enable us
to upload photos now
one of the hard thing about photos or
media in general is that
they're heavier
what do I mean by that photos and
certain types of media are heavier
yeah like the file size like they're
just bigger files like they're they're
they're they're they're they're like
when you think about like like they're
more Megabytes they're they could be
gigabytes they could be it's going to
take out more space right it's gonna
need more storage so what we could do is
we could take our files
and just upload them directly to our
server right like we could take our
images and just upload them and have a
folder on our server called images
however if people start to use this
social network the requests for those
images is going to be a really taxing on
our server right and so everyone that
needs all these photos will keep hitting
our server keep hitting our server keep
hitting our server uh and that would
that would make our server Bill get
pretty big pretty quickly
um but also
since they're heavier are bigger files
it's going to take longer for them to
download and if my server is sitting in
Dallas or Chicago
we're not getting any benefits that uh
like something like a CDN could provide
for us where our images are on servers
around the world right so what people do
is they use things like Amazon S3
to store their images for them so we
kind of just send our images to Amazon
and Amazon gives us back a what what
would Amazon give us back
we would send all of our images to
Amazon and and Amazon's just going to
give us a what
a URL right a URL so we're not actually
storing the images ourself Amazon's
doing all the heavy lifting for us
eventually we could use like cool stuff
like CDN so that our images are all over
the place for other folks to get and
download easier right and they just give
us a URL so what are we going to store
what are we gonna store
in our post document
yeah we're we're not going to store the
actual image we're going to store the
URL to that image right and we're
actually going to use something that
makes this easier we're gonna use
something called cloudinary cloudinary
is really developer friendly and what
cloudinary is going to do is we're going
to send our photos to cloudinary and
then cloudinary is going to give us back
a URL that we could store
in our in our document right and so
we're not actually storing any images
we're just storing the URLs to the
images
what about thumbnails the cool thing is
that once we send our stuff to
cloudinary they can actually give us
thumbnail URLs and stuff like that too
they can give us a lot of stuff back
that'll make us make our lives pretty
easy
and the reason why I like cloudinary
good thing you brought that up gonski is
that they actually do lots of other
media so you don't we're not limited to
just
images uh going forward if we're using
cloudinary
um so that's that's the beautiful part
here too
all right so we have right now the very
basics of our application we have the
ability to have individual post we have
the ability to have a feed that shows
kind of like all the posts we could have
individual profile Pages where when our
when we go to an individual profile and
they're not logged in we'll just see all
the photos from that user and if they
are logged in we'll see all their photos
but we'll also have the ability to
upload
um upload other posts
pool so this is like a very very simple
social network
um if we wanted to we could add some
other stuff too we could add
um we could add comments so if we were
gonna add comments let's say that we had
uh underneath our
our images would be comets and so what
could we do here if we wanted to show
comments we probably need another what
probably another collection I feel more
comfortable this was in another
collection uh so let's say like
uh let's put a comment here
um
a Doyle I don't spell a Doyle a Doyle oh
Doyle rules
um
cool stuff we're just gonna say cool
stuff
all right so the comment was cool stuff
um and maybe we have the user that made
the comment
in this case uh oh
wow
it's Sarah
it's Sarah posting on Bob's
on Bob's on Bob's post
we're gonna have some stuff to talk
about on Thursday so Sarah just left a
comment on Bob's post saying cool stuff
right
I don't know
why what are these games right Victor's
gonna be mad uh so Sarah just posted
cool stuff
we need to add a block button
unfriend all right so now we have a
comment so let's think about what we
might need for comments
um so let's go ahead and build out a new
collection
I want the rounded one
there we go
let's build up comments
so now we have our comments collection
and let's go ahead and just give this a
title real quick
comments
beautiful
so here's our comments and we're gonna
have an individual documents for each of
our comments it means we have a new
model
we have a new model that has a new
schema
and whenever we create a comment right
there's there's going to have to be some
sort of like form here or something for
us to enter a comment so let's just
imagine right now there's a form here
that Sarah used right so what type of
information we're going to need to store
in the comments uh created by comment
and yeah likes could be a good thing
here I like that created that could be
eventually too if we need like time so
let's go ahead and say that we're going
to need inside of our comments we're
going to have our
ID that's gonna be randomly generated
uh so in this it'll just say seven
twenty right uh we're gonna need the
actual comment
which in this case is cool stuff
we're gonna have
um
let's just call it something slightly
different just so we can keep track of
it but we probably still have created by
made by in this case it was made by what
would we put here for made by this
comment was made by what
yeah 102. it was made by 102 because 102
is Sarah Sarah has the idea of 102 so be
102. nice so ID comet made by
um
I think we could probably get away with
that for now oh and maybe if we if we
wanted likes on individual comments we
could have that like we could have likes
for individual comments but I don't want
to do that for now let's just keep it
simple we'll have
um the individual ID for the comment
we'll have
um cool stuff made by we need one other
we needed one other really important bit
of information
we're missing one important bit of
information
yeah the post ID so we need the post ID
so where where was this comment made on
which post was this comment made on well
this post was made on the comment of 501
right so this individual post
right this individual post
was this post here which had the idea
so all my comments that are left right
all my comments that are left on this
post will have that post idea 501 so if
we kind of keep with the lore here and
we kind of copy this and we make a new
comment
let me bring it down we might we might
see something like this happen uh so
this will be a new a new ID for this
this comment we might see
what the
uh and that's going to be made by
who would that have been made by
yeah that's going to be made by 101
which is John right we don't have Victor
here yet but but John's just live it
Victor's gonna come in Victor Victor's
gonna wind up needing a comment too so
let's go ahead and make another comment
here
and so this will be another comment
uh it'll be made by uh 104. we can't see
104 because that's Victor down here we
can just imagine
that Victor is is 104.
right
and so uh it's still in the 501 uh but
it's gonna be made by Victor and it's
going to be
just like
what's like the crying emoji
just like upset there's a sad face
sad face just like they're not even mad
we're not even mad they're just they're
just sad
right they're just sad
cool uh and then what if there was like
what if there was like a post
what if there was a comment on a
different post
what if there was like a comment on
um
on this post here
right there there is a comment on a
different post
should be five of two right there's a
different post right let's say there's a
comment on uh This original post up here
the the other posts by Bob right there's
another post by Bob right
and there's another comment on that post
well it would have its own ID
right
Neato
uh it could be made by let's say it was
made by Frank good old frank right and
it was on post 500. so
while we can't see it because we don't
have that post pulled up
right
we don't have that post pulled up we can
see that
Bob's original post right the post that
has the idea 500. uh actually now has a
comment uh of Neato that was made by
Frank
and we know that this comment goes along
with this post because the post ID
matches the ID
boom you need to build a social network
right you just built a social network
and so we can build out full-blown
applications just with these kind of
simple concepts of all right well we
know that every document that gets
created has its own ID
right has its own ID so we can use those
IDs to our advantage right every single
post needs a created by and we can just
go ahead and say all right we know who
created it by the user that was logged
in we just grabbed their ID and we plop
it in then we know that each post right
each post uh can have comments and we
can tie the comments to an individual
post by all of them having the same post
ID so the idea here is that we can
literally start building out
applications that do anything that we
want them to do by simply keeping this
concept in mind of all right every
document has an ID I can have different
collections for the different kinds of
data and I can connect all these
different bits of data together just by
using those IDs
that's pretty neat right this is pretty
cool like this is this is what I said
like once you understand some basic
stuff we can start to build whatever we
want and so the
idea here is that on Thursday we have to
learn a few things
right
we have to learn a few things like wait
a minute like how do I like grab these
IDs right how do I like
use these IDs to make requests to the
different collections like I know the
logged in user has an ID but how do I
use it to get their post or how do I use
it to get their comments so on Thursday
um
we will explore that deeper right we're
going to take a look at all right how am
I using all these different IDs how am I
using these different IDs to get these
different collections the posts the
comments uh and then once we know that
we can put all this together to build
this application together
oh
literally all making sense and so
whatever you wanted to add like whatever
stuff you wanted to add you're probably
just updating these few things right
you're you're gonna if we want it to add
friends
right we wanted to add friends uh
friends could be simply an array right
like like real quick just before we
leave tonight let's say we wanted to add
friends to our users right we could just
have
an array called friends
and inside that array we could put the
different users that we're friends with
right
no they only got it's only 103. it's
only Frank John and Sarah aren't friends
with with Bob so long story right but we
let's say Sarah slid in right there you
go right now now we have 103 and 102 as
the friends of Bob right so we can
really just extend off of this to add
any of the functionality that we want
we'll keep it simple to build our air
MVP but once we have this
and we can build whatever the heck we
want
right it's just figuring out all right
do I need a new collection for that kind
of data what do I need to keep track of
and so when we come back on Thursday
we'll take a look at these IDs we'll
take a look at how all this gets
connected so we can build our
social network
cool how do you update the database
schema after you've already been created
uh we're not there yet let's let's build
something basic really first and you can
always run stuff you can always run
queries that like update stuff there's
ways of handling that in production
we're just we're just not there
cool
alrighty let's go ahead and
do a raid
uh ending with Ali let's go over there
they're doing some leak code uh we're
gonna be getting into leak code pretty
soon
uh so let's go ahead
and give them a raid
get those sweet sweet Channel points
wonderful
all right
everybody's already warned them so I
feel good as always send some love their
way give them some follows uh hang out
in the chat for a while say what's up
say hello and I will see you all on
Thursday thank you for a wonderful class
uh really excited to build out this
application together like all your hard
work becomes real like you can build
real now that's so cool and so
let's get all that through on Thursday
let's build this out and start building
the apps of our dreams all right buddy
have a wonderful rest of your night or
day morning wherever it may be for you
let's read